Section	Item Type	Date	Title	Subtitle	Author	Link	Tags	Image	Alt	Teaser
Intro	Intro	2016-10-15	Introduction			intro/introduction.html				Welcome to Practopians.com, the website for Practical Utopians! We invite you to explore our site. You'll note that it contains several different types of content.
Core	Core Writing	2015-12-16	Background			core/background.html				It has seemed to me for some time that there is a space -- perhaps even a need -- for some new institution to emerge in the world.
Core	Core Writing	2018-10-10	Core Clusters			core/core-clusters.html				
Core	Core Writing	2015-12-16	Mission			core/mission.html				The Practopians seek to identify and promote beliefs, principles, values and actions that will result in a brighter future for humanity.
Core	Core Writing	2015-12-16	Principles			core/principles.html				This list identifies our most fundamental beliefs about the world and our place in it.
Core	Core Writing	2015-12-16	Values			core/values.html				These are the things we value most.
Core	Core Writing	2016-11-22	About the Principles and Values			core/about-the-principles-and-values.html				The Practopian Principles and Values are intended to provide a foundational set of beliefs about human nature, the world, and our place in it.
Core	Core Writing	2016-12-05	Pledge			core/pledge.html				Are you ready to Take the Practopians Pledge?
Core	Core Writing	2017-03-18	The Practopian Way			way/the-practopian-way.html				A stand-alone document encapsulating our Mission, Principles and Values.
Core	Core Writing	2016-12-05	Changes			core/changes.html				This log tracks changes to the content of the site, especially in regards to the Core Writings.
Issues	Issue	2016-11-23	Sustainability		Herb Bowie	issues/sustainability/sustainability.html	sustainability			As Practical Utopians, we want our culture to continue to evolve towards better and brighter outcomes for humanity.  The biggest threat we see to this continued evolution is our ongoing exhaustion and degradation of our natural environment here on Earth.
Issues	Issue	2017-03-18	Human Population Growth		Herb Bowie	issues/sustainability/human-population-growth.html	sustainability			If sustainability is the most serious issue of our time, then human population growth is certainly one of the most vital tools we have for making progress in this area. Let's look at the topic of human population growth from a number of different perspectives.
Blog	Blog Post	2019-03-11	Citizen Kane vs. Citizen Bailey		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/citizen-kane-vs-citizen-bailey.html	art, cultural evolution, integral	kane-vs-bailey.jpg	Citizen Kane and George Bailey	I've often considered *Citizen Kane* and *It's A Wonderful Life* to be complementary works, much like cinematic twins separated at birth.
Blog	Blog Post	2019-03-05	Our Three Human Approaches to Dealing with Problems	And How These Apply to the Issue of Global Sustainability	Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/our-three-human-approaches-to-dealing-with-problems.html	critical thinking, science, sustainability, systemic	three-approaches.jpg	Three Approaches to Dealing with Problems	We all run into challenges from time to time, whether at work, at home, or in our communities. In general, I would suggest, we have three different approaches available to us when we try to respond to such situations.
Blog	Blog Post	2019-02-18	Is There Any Middle Left?		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/is-there-any-middle-left.html	democracy, governance	any-middle-left.jpg	Stuck in the middle	As the US political scene transitions from the Democratic successes in the midterms to the beginnings of the 2020 presidential contest, one of the most pressing questions to emerge is whether there is any meaningful middle ground remaining along the political spectrum stretching from left to right.
Blog	Blog Post	2019-02-11	Rebuilding Trust In Our Large Institutions		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/rebuilding-trust-in-our-large-institutions.html	cultural evolution, mission, society, value creation	star-wars.jpg	Original Star Wars Poster	I find it fascinating to compare the original *Star Trek* television series with the first *Star Wars* movie. And I think this comparison can reveal a lot about the current state of our culture.
Blog	Blog Post	2019-01-27	Our American Class System		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/our-american-class-system.html	democracy, equality, society	coke.jpg	Coca-Cola	In short, this was a period of our history during which class distinctions seemed to be fading. Sure, some people had more money than others. My mother drove a Ford Falcon, my father drove a Mustang, and my Uncle drove a Thunderbird. But they all drove Fords, everyone drove cars built in Detroit, and the similarities between the cars they were driving were more significant than the differences.
Blog	Blog Post	2019-01-21	What We Can Learn from the Government Shutdown		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/what-we-can-learn-from-the-government-shutdown.html	democracy, society, value creation	govt-shutdown.jpg	Government Shutdown	As I write this, those of us in the U.S. are on day 30 of a partial federal government shutdown whose effects are increasingly rippling through our society. How did we get here, we might ask ourselves? And how might we avoid such lunacy in the future? Here are six things we might want to watch out for.
Blog	Blog Post	2019-01-07	The Truth About Capitalism		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/the-truth-about-capitalism.html	democracy, equality, society, value creation	capitalism.jpg	Capitalism	No matter which way you lean politically, you probably have strong feelings about capitalism. It seems to me that there are a lot of odd ideas on this topic running around out there in today's world. Let me offer some thoughts about what seems true to me.
Blog	Blog Post	2018-12-17	Have We Passed The Point of Maximum Useful Tech?		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/have-we-passed-the-point-of-maximum-useful-tech.html	critical thinking, cultural evolution, society, tools	max-useful-tech.jpg	Omnipresent Technology	What happened between 1990 and 2018? Who stuck the playing card between the spokes of the bicycle for my mind, turning a mental enabler into an annoying distraction?
Blog	Blog Post	2018-12-03	Calling for a US Sustainability Initiative		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/calling-for-a-us-sustainability-initiative.html	society, sustainability	sustainability.jpg	A Green Environment	Looking back over the history of the United States, it's easy to see in hindsight a series of events and actions that have either united or divided us.
Blog	Blog Post	2018-11-19	A Broadcast Consciousness		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/a-broadcast-consciousness.html	cultural evolution, integral	please-stand-by.jpg	Please Stand By	Let me take you on a little journey of thought exploring some hitherto unconsidered aspects of our common cultural evolution.
Blog	Blog Post	2018-10-31	My Advice to Young People of All Ages		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/my-advice-to-young-people-of-all-ages.html	art, education, individuals	advice.jpg	Notifications	Today I'd like to change my focus and offer some advice for what people can and should do to improve their own personal lots in modern life. I have only a few recommendations, and they're rather brief and straightforward, although I won't claim they're easy.
Blog	Blog Post	2018-10-04	US Political Observations for October 2018		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/us-political-observations-for-october-2018.html	democracy, governance, rule of law	vote-2018.jpg	Vote 2018	In this brief respite between primary season and the general US midterm elections in November, I thought it might be fitting to  offer up a few suggestions to those of us who will be participating, whether as candidates or as voters.
Blog	Blog Post	2018-09-26	Our Societal Disconnect		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/our-societal-disconnect.html	society			I was thinking recently about my own upbringing in Annapolis, Maryland, back in the sixties, and it occurred to me that there were several aspects of my experience there and then that I took for granted, but that are no longer very common today.
Blog	Blog Post	2018-09-15	Why I Call Myself a Practopian		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/why-i-call-myself-a-practopian.html	humanism, religion			I suffered a crisis of faith a few years ago: a crisis of faith in my atheism.
Blog	Blog Post	2018-08-04	A Twenty-Six Legged Stool?		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/a-twenty-six-legged-stool.html	balance, society			A few years ago, when I was teaching software development, I often invoked the image of a three-legged stool, with each leg representing one of the essential leadership roles: leave out any one of them, you see, and your project is liable to fall over. The human mind is pretty good at understanding these sorts of visual analogies, and is also pretty good at working with short lists of important things. This limited numeric range is, perhaps, unfortunate, because, as far as I can discern, there are no fewer than twenty-six essentials that modern humans must keep their eyes on in order for us to keep civilization as we know it moving forward on a reasonably even keel. Ignore or devalue any one of them, I maintain, and it is human society that starts to fall over.
Blog	Blog Post	2018-07-02	What To Do About Big Business?		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/what-to-do-about-big-business.html	balance, democracy			Has business gotten too big? Rather than trying to answer this question directly, let's start by reviewing the fundamental architecture of all modern societies.
Blog	Blog Post	2018-06-22	Humanism		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/humanism.html	humanism			The first Practopian core principle states that "We are humanistic: we are focused on human concerns and human potential." The primary intent behind this statement is to signal that we don't claim to represent any authority other than our own very human selves, and that we focus on the interests of ourselves and our fellow humans. However, there are a whole host of Humanist organizations already in existence around the globe, representing a Humanist movement of sorts, and so it may be helpful to comment on how I see the Society for Practical Utopians in relationship to these other brands of humanism.
Blog	Blog Post	2018-04-13	Talking Openly about Hierarchy		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/talking-openly-about-hierarchy.html	cultural evolution, governance			I sometimes think that at least half of the confusion we currently experience in our civil discourse stems from our inability to speak openly and honestly about the nature of hierarchy.
Blog	Blog Post	2018-04-10	The Unraveling of The Common Good		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/the-unraveling-of-the-common-good.html	democracy, systemic			I've recently read *The Common Good* by Robert B. Reich, and can recommend it heartily. It's a lovely little book that can help remind us all that we have obligations to the societies in which we live and work, and that contributing to the common good should be a daily calling for all of us. Still though, I can't help but feel that Reich's description of the unraveling of the common good in the USA is incomplete, and so I'd like to offer something of an addendum with the words that follow.
Blog	Blog Post	2018-04-05	A Traditional Remedy for the Facebook Problem: Competition		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/a-traditional-remedy-for-the-facebook-problem-competition.html	cultural evolution, democracy, value creation			Facebook has been in the news lately due to renewed privacy concerns, and many observers have called for various solutions, including pledges from CEO Mark Zuckerberg to do better, as well as increased government regulation. But there seems to be an obvious and somewhat traditional remedy that is not getting much consideration: good old fashioned competition.
Blog	Blog Post	2018-02-27	A Practopian Approach to Gun Issues in the US		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/a-practopian-approach-to-gun-issues-in-the-us.html	cultural evolution, integral			The recent Florida school shooting has again propelled issues surrounding gun violence into the forefront of our national dialogue. The Core Practopian beliefs may seem very broad and general, but I'd like to illustrate how they can be usefully employed in a specific debate such as this one.
Blog	Blog Post	2018-01-22	Technology Education for the Youth of Today		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/technology-education-for-the-youth-of-today.html	cultural evolution, education			I came across a couple of things recently that got me thinking about the value of technology education, and what that training should look like. The first item that caught my attention was Kirk McElhearn's blog post about "The Tech Industry's Tunnel Vision about Coding and Language."
Blog	Blog Post	2017-11-15	Art and the Eye of the Beholder		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/art-and-the-eye-of-the-beholder.html	art, stories			I've noticed that Big Thinkers -- people like Ken Wilber and Yuval Noah Harari -- tend to get confused about art and why it matters. Unable to find a neat place for it in their developmental models of civilization, they end up citing that old chestnut of "Beauty is in the eye of the beholder" and leaving it at that, as an entirely subjective experience. Everyone's idea of beauty can be different, they say, and they're all equally valid. Of course, I've never run across an actual artist who sees things this way.
Blog	Blog Post	2017-08-23	Help! Help! The Robots are Coming!		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/help-help-the-robots-are-coming.html	cultural evolution, individuals			Many pundits today are predicting a future of robots equipped with artificial intelligence so powerful that they will essentially render great swaths of humanity obsolete. Let me just make a few points concerning such imaginings.
Blog	Blog Post	2017-07-13	Our American Identity: Where To Next?		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/our-american-identity-where-to-next.html	liberty, progress			Like many of my fellow citizens, I've been struggling in recent months to understand exactly what it means to be American these days -- to identify the central elements of our collective identity that still bind us together as some kind of unified whole.
Blog	Blog Post	2017-06-12	In Defense of Balance		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/in-defense-of-balance.html	balance			When I founded The Society for Practical Utopians, I based it on a fundamental set of beliefs, divided up into principles and values. And the very first value, the one given preeminent position, is balance.
Blog	Blog Post	2017-03-26	A Compact, Extensible, Open-Source Belief System for the 21st Century		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/a-compact-extensible-open-source-belief-system-for-the-21st-century.html				It often seems that there is little in this modern world that any two of us can agree on.
Blog	Blog Post	2016-12-29	Another Way to Think about the US Elections		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/another-way-to-think-about-the-us-elections.html	cultural evolution, integral			I was recently puzzling over the still surprising victory of Donald Trump in the recent US Presidential elections, when it occurred to me that there is another way to think about this whole chain of events. What follows is going to require some understanding of evolving developmental levels for people and our societies, so let me start with a summary of my understanding of these.
Blog	Blog Post	2016-12-08	Christmas For All		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/christmas-for-all.html	humanism			Here we are at the end of another year, well into what many of us call the Holiday Season. As I've remarked elsewhere, when it comes to religion, I'm a bit of a mongrel, so my approach to the holidays, while imbued with many of the traditional practices and stories associated with a good Methodist upbringing, does not hew closely to any particular set of Christian dictates. But that's perhaps as it should be, for Christmas, it seems to me, has always been too big a thing to be narrowly claimed by any particular religious organization.
Blog	Blog Post	2016-11-09	Making Sense of What Happened on Nov 8		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/making-sense-of-what-happened-on-nov-8.html	democracy			Trying hard to make sense of what happened last night. Here are my thoughts. 1. Our country is almost equally divided into two camps.
Blog	Blog Post	2016-11-03	What We Need After the Election		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/what-we-need-after-the-election.html	education, society, sustainability			It may be too early to know who will win on Tuesday, but it's not too early to assess the major issues roiling the electorate and offer a few thoughts about what needs to happen after the voting is over -- no matter who comes out on top.
Blog	Blog Post	2016-01-10	Developmental Levels as Evolving Social Structures		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/developmental-levels-as-evolving-social-structures.html	cultural evolution, integral			As human society has evolved over the centuries, we have developed different types of social structures. None of the later structures  replace earlier ones, yet each new structure has been devised in order to confer some new sort of evolutionary advantage to our species -- in other words, to help us survive and thrive more effectively.
Blog	Blog Post	2009-10-22	Developmental Levels		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/developmental-levels.html	cultural evolution, integral			A number of authors and systems of thought espouse one or another series of developmental levels, in fields of study as diverse as psychology, sociology, economics and organizational development.
Blog	Blog Post	2013-12-15	Human Nature		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/human-nature.html	cultural evolution, evolution, humanism, stories			What does it mean to be human? This must certainly be a foundational question for all of us, when  contemplating almost any aspect of our existence. And while any brief answer to this question must admittedly be no more than a starting point for further discussion, I think it perhaps worthwhile to provide such a beginning. And so, here they are: the primary traits we share that I think make us uniquely human.
Blog	Blog Post	2012-02-21	Reasons for Belief		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/reasons-for-belief.html	critical thinking, religion			We often seem to assume that people say things, and come to believe them, because they are true. It seems to me, though, that people take up beliefs for a whole host of reasons, and the likely truth or falsehood of these statements is often the least of the motivating factors at work. Here then, are the multifarious reasons why people may choose to believe something.
Blog	Blog Post	2014-11-27	Religion, Storytelling and Art		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/religion-storytelling-and-art.html	cultural evolution, democracy, humanism, religion, science, written word			Religion can be thought of as a collection of shared cultural artifacts that provide a sense of meaning about human existence.
Blog	Blog Post	2012-08-04	Religious Freedom		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/religious-freedom.html	balance, critical thinking, love, religion, written word			When it comes to religion, I have to confess to being a bit of a mongrel. My mother was a Methodist. My father was a nudist. And I once called myself an immortalist. These days I choose not to align myself with any particular religious group.
Blog	Blog Post	2012-10-26	The Four Quadrants of Human Knowledge		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/the-four-quadrants-of-human-knowledge.html	integral			I first came across Ken Wilber's work late in the last century when a friend handed me a copy of <cite>A Brief History of Everything</cite> as a birthday present. Wilber has described four quadrants of human knowledge, each representing a different and valid perspective on the same reality.
Blog	Blog Post	2012-03-10	The Nature of God		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/the-nature-of-god.html	critical thinking, religion			Human records indicate that some sort of belief in a God or collection of gods is a feature of almost all human culture. No matter what the continent or age, a belief in powerful, supernatural beings that somehow influence human existence is a near-constant. At the same time, though, many skeptics have persistently questioned the existence of such a being, and beliefs about the attributes of God have exhibited wide variation, with such variations often being so deeply held that wars have been fought to advance one sort of belief over another. Rather than approach the question of God's existence directly, it seems wiser to ask ourselves how we can best explain the facts above -- the combination of a nearly universal human belief in God, combined with so far irreconcilable differences in what sort of God we believe in.
Blog	Blog Post	2011-08-15	The Systemic Era		Herb Bowie	blog/hbowie/the-systemic-era.html	cultural evolution, systemic			We tend to divide up human history into relatively neat periods, and give them names like "The Agrarian Era," "The Age of Industrialization" and "The Information Age." When I look at what's going on around me today and try to make sense of it, I am forced to draw the conclusion that we are deep into an as yet unnamed age that I would call "The Systemic Era." What I mean by this is that we are now at a point where the human condition is much more influenced by vast social and economic systems of our own collective making than by any natural forces or conditions, or any individual actions we might take, or even any individual intentions we might have.
