Section	Item Type	Date	Title	Link	Tags	Teaser
News	News Item	2016-11-04	A staggering number of the world's children are breathing toxic air	news/a-staggering-number-of-the-worlds-children-are-breathing-toxic-air.html	sustainability	A staggering number of the world's children are breathing toxic air, according to a new UNICEF report.

News	News Item	2018-04-14	A 76K Monthly Pension - Why States and Cities Are Short on Cash	news/a-76k-monthly-pension-why-states-and-cities-are-short-on-cash.html	cultural evolution, governance, society	Governments are struggling as mounting pension obligations crowd out the rest of their budgets. Oregon faces a severe, self-inflicted crisis.

News	News Item	2017-01-11	The Real Story About Fake News Is Partisanship	news/the-real-story-about-fake-news-is-partisanship.html	critical thinking	Partisan bias now operates more like racism than mere political disagreement, academic research on the subject shows. And this widespread prejudice could have serious consequences for American democracy.

News	News Item	2016-11-25	Top 0.1% Holds Same Amount of Wealth as Bottom 90%	news/top-0.1-holds-same-amount-of-wealth-as-bottom-90.html	equality	We all know income inequality is pretty wide in the USA, but the wealth ownership data via Deutsche Bank is quite astonishing. Note the change post WW II, and the subsequent reversion.

News	News Item	2017-01-13	How Not To Be Ignorant About The World	news/how-not-to-be-ignorant-about-the-world.html	critical thinking	Watch this if you'd like to be smarter than the average chimpanzee. 

News	News Item	2017-03-06	The cost of a polluted environment: 1.7 million child deaths a year	news/the-cost-of-a-polluted-environment-1.7-million-child-deaths-a-year.html	sustainability	More than 1 in 4 deaths of children under 5 years of age are attributable to unhealthy environments. Every year, environmental risks -- such as indoor and outdoor air pollution, second-hand smoke, unsafe water, lack of sanitation, and inadequate hygiene -- take the lives of 1.7 million children under 5 years, say two new WHO reports.

News	News Item	2017-06-15	Remember the Population Bomb? It's Still Ticking	news/remember-the-population-bomb-its-still-ticking.html	population	Lesotho's experience since the 1970s is an even stronger case study of what happens when development plans ignore the reality that such efforts can be a recipe for exploding human numbers.

News	News Item	2016-11-25	Does Decision-Making Matter?	news/does-decision-making-matter.html	critical thinking, love, wonder	"We don’t decide about life; we’re captured by life. In the major spheres, decision-making, when it happens at all, is downstream from curiosity and engagement. If we really want to understand and shape behavior, maybe we should look less at decision-making and more at curiosity. Why are you interested in the things you are interested in? Why are some people zealously seized, manically attentive and compulsively engaged?"

News	News Item	2016-11-11	What Seattle Doesn't Understand About Trump's Appeal	news/what-seattle-doesnt-understand-about-trumps-appeal.html	cultural evolution	Matt Manweller, a Republican state lawmaker from Ellensburg, Washington, USA, is also a Political Science professor, and does a great job of explaining why those outside of our large urban centers feel abandoned by the liberals. 

News	News Item	2017-07-10	Earth's sixth mass extinction event under way	news/earths-sixth-mass-extinction-event-under-way.html	sustainability	Researchers talk of 'biological annihilation' as study reveals billions of populations of animals have been lost in recent decades.

News	News Item	2016-11-10	What So Many People Don’t Get About the U.S. Working Class	news/what-so-many-people-dont-get-about-the-u.s.-working-class.html	cultural evolution	From Joan C. Williams, in the Harvard Business Review: Most complete explanation yet of why so many US voters went for Trump. 

News	News Item	2017-07-29	Loss of Fertile Land Fuels Looming Crisis Across Africa	news/loss-of-fertile-land-fuels-looming-crisis-across-africa.html	sustainability	Climate change, soil degradation and rising wealth are shrinking the amount of usable land in Africa. But the number of people who need it is rising fast.

News	News Item	2017-01-18	Earth Sets a Temperature Record for the Third Straight Year	news/earth-sets-a-temperature-record-for-the-third-straight-year.html	sustainability	Marking another milestone for a changing planet, scientists reported on Wednesday that the Earth reached its highest temperature on record in 2016 — trouncing a record set only a year earlier, which beat one set in 2014. It is the first time in the modern era of global warming data that temperatures have blown past the previous record three years in a row.

News	News Item	2015-12-08	How ISIS Makes Radicals	news/how-isis-makes-radicals.html	imperfection, individuals, society	Great piece by David Brooks in the New York Times, summarizing elements of "The True Believer," by Eric Hoffer, written in 1951.

News	News Item	2018-04-12	Has Trump Made the Working Class Great Again?	news/has-trump-made-the-working-class-great-again.html	equality	And yet, even if they do make more than female and black workers, white men still aren’t able to outearn their parents -- a bleak commentary on the American Dream. 

News	News Item	2015-11-21	What Science Is -- and How and Why It Works	news/what-science-is-and-how-and-why-it-works.html	science	Great short article by Neil deGrasse Tyson about the nature of scientific knowledge.

News	News Item		A staggering number of the world's children are breathing toxic air	news/a-staggering-number-of-the-worlds-children-are-breathing-toxic-air.html		
News	News Item	2018-03-20	Empty half the Earth of its humans. It's the only way to save the planet	news/empty-half-the-earth-of-its-humans.-its-the-only-way-to-save-the-planet.html	sustainability	Cities are part of the system we've invented to keep people alive on Earth. People tend to like cities, and have been congregating in them ever since the invention of agriculture, 10,000 or so years ago. That's why we call it civilisation. 

