Section	Item Type	Date	Title	Author	Link	Tags	Teaser
Quotes	Quotation	2007-02-28 05:26:45	Art, Science and Empire	William Blake	quotes/art-science-and-empire.html	art, science	The foundation of empire is art and science. Remove them or degrade them, and the empire is no more. Empire follows art and not vice versa as Englishmen suppose.
Quotes	Quotation	2014-04-09 18:54:37	Symbolic Language	David Christian	quotes/symbolic-language.html	critical thinking, humanism, written word	At the moment, the most powerful marker, the feature that distinguishes our species most decisively from closely related species, appears to be symbolic language. Many animals can communicate with each other and share information in rudimentary ways. But humans are the only creatures who can communicate using symbolic language: a system of arbitrary symbols that can be linked by formal grammars to create a nearly limitless variety of precise utterances. Symbolic language greatly enhanced the precision of human communication and the range of ideas that humans can exchange. Symbolic language allowed people for the first time to talk about entities that were not immediately present (including experiences and events in the past and future) as well as entities whose existence was not certain (such as souls, demons, and dreams). 
Quotes	Quotation	2010-11-21 07:23:15	Six Impossible Things Before Breakfast	Lewis Carroll	quotes/six-impossible-things-before-breakfast.html	critical thinking	I can't believe that! said Alice. "Can't you?" the Queen said in a pitying tone. "Try again: draw a long breath, and shut your eyes." Alice laughed. "There's no use trying," she said "one can't believe impossible things." "I daresay you haven't had much practice," said the Queen. "When I was your age, I always did it for half-an-hour a day. Why, sometimes I've believed as many as six impossible things before breakfast."
Quotes	Quotation	2016-11-07 13:52:48	National parks and reserves	John F. Kennedy	quotes/national-parks-and-reserves.html	property	The supreme reality of our time is ... the vulnerability of our planet. National parks and reserves are an integral aspect of intelligent use of natural resources. It is the course of wisdom to set aside an ample portion of our natural resources as national parks and reserves, thus ensuring that future generations may know the majesty of the earth as we know it today.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-02-27 13:29:06	A Work Ethic Gone Mad	Matthew Stewart	quotes/a-work-ethic-gone-mad.html	balance, humanism	The blend of corporate mysticism and transcendental consumerism he [Tom Peters] offers has its roots planted in the pragmatic, optimistic, can-do American work ethic. But, like the Taylorist philosophy from which it springs, it is also a work ethic gone mad. It begins with the idea that work can be meaningful and stretches it to the point where there is no meaning outside work. It becomes a deluded form of optimism, a feverish activity that masks an underlying anxiety about the meaning of life, a form of self-alienation so complete that the self disappears entirely into its consumer preferences and transactions.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-10-23 11:28:26	The Love of What We are Doing	Wynton Marsalis	quotes/the-love-of-what-we-are-doing.html	love	It's a labor of love for all of us. It's not contrived or fake and it's not about money (it's too much work to be about money). It's about the love of what we are doing. That's the center of what it is about, and that's the center of what anything of great human value is always about. It's about that love that you have for humanity in our commonality. And to experience all of the things that are in this music like heartbreak and joy and many other things -- a certain type of striving and struggle -- it's a part of the life we all live together.
Quotes	Quotation	2007-05-26 21:32:40	The World is a Wonderfully Weird Place	Tom Robbins	quotes/the-world-is-a-wonderfully-weird-place.html	liberty, love, wonder	The world is a wonderfully weird place, consensual reality is significantly flawed, no institution can be trusted, certainty is a mirage, security a delusion, and the tyranny of the dull mind forever threatens -- but our lives are not as limited as we think they are, all things are possible, laughter is holier than piety, freedom is sweeter than fame, and in the end it's love and love alone that really matters.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-10-26 10:42:28	If the future of humanity is decided in your absence...	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/if-the-future-of-humanity-is-decided-in-your-absence....html	cultural evolution	In a world deluged by irrelevant information, clarity is power. In theory, anybody can join the debate about the future of humanity, but it is so hard to maintain a clear vision. We might not even notice that a debate is going on, or what the key questions are. Most of us can't afford the luxury of investigating, because we have more pressing things to do: we have to go to work, take care of the kids, or look after elderly parents. Unfortunately, history does not give discounts. If the future of humanity is decided in your absence, because you are too busy feeding and clothing your kids, you and they will not be exempt from the consequences. This is unfair: but who said history was fair? 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-04-16 10:59:52	To end up here in a pile of bones	Frank Capra	quotes/to-end-up-here-in-a-pile-of-bones.html	humanism	Not until we showed them some of the stuff we got at Dachau, that George Stevens photographed with his crew, did it actually impinge itself on the mind of the horror, the horror of this whole thing.  Man, the highest of all the animals... the Man who created God... to end up here in a pile of bones, burned... it left me just speechless, colorless, bloodless. I couldn't possibly believe that there was this kind of savagery in the world, you see. 
Quotes	Quotation	2017-05-08 07:22:12	It is foolish to view realism and idealism as incompatible	John McCain	quotes/it-is-foolish-to-view-realism-and-idealism-as-incompatible.html	balance	I consider myself a realist. I have certainly seen my share of the world as it really is and not how I wish it would be. What I've learned is that it is foolish to view realism and idealism as incompatible or to consider our power and wealth as encumbered by the demands of justice, morality and conscience.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-02-27 13:07:00	Preparing Managers to Manage	Matthew Stewart	quotes/preparing-managers-to-manage.html	education	The time has come to recognize that higher education in management rests on a fatal fallacy. The idea behind the contemporary business school is that preparing future business managers means training them in a discipline called Business Management. After 100 years of fruitless attempts to produce such a discipline, it should be clear that it does not exist. Preparing managers to manage, in fact, is not different from preparing people to live in a civilized world. Managers do not need to be trained; they need to be <em>educated.</em> And for that purpose, although a certain amount of study of business-related subjects may prove useful, the business schools as they are presently constituted are at best superfluous.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Quality of Children vs. Quantity	Margaret Mead	quotes/quality-of-children-vs.-quantity.html	education, parenthood, sustainability	Instead of needing lots of children, we need high-quality children.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-11-02 07:21:09	Never Knew Cocaine to Improve Anything	Joe Boyd	quotes/never-knew-cocaine-to-improve-anything.html	art, cultural evolution	I listened in the studio control room as musicians' modes of consciousness-alteration proceeded from grass, hash and acid to heroin and cocaine by the 1970s. All but the latter could, on occasion, provide benefits, at least to the music. I never knew cocaine to improve anything.... I suspect that the surge in cocaine's popularity explains -- at least in part -- why so many great sixties artists made such bad records in the following decade.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-07-20 10:12:06	What would a new social compact look like?	Edward Luce	quotes/what-would-a-new-social-compact-look-like.html	democracy, equality, society	What would a new social compact look like? Since our crisis is political, the solutions must stretch far beyond economics. My own views do not always fit into twentieth-century pigeonholes. But I believe that protecting society's weakest from arbitrary misfortune is the ultimate test of our civilisational worth. It seems blindingly obvious that universal healthcare ought to be a basic shield against the vicissitudes of an increasingly volatile labour market. Humane immigration laws should be enforced, and the link between public benefits and citizenship restored. Ours is an age of lawyers and accountants. Micro-regulation of the workplace ought to be replaced with broad guideines; free speech, in whatever form it takes, must be upheld on campuses and in the media; the tax system should be ruthlessly simplified; governments must tax bad things, such as carbon, rather than good things, like jobs; companies should be taxed where they conduct their business. Governments must launch Marshall Plans to retrain their middle classes. The nature of representative democracy should be re-imagined. Above all, money's stranglehold on the legistlative process has to be broken. 
Quotes	Quotation	2017-07-30 09:52:58	Discovering that I am Nobody	Josiah Royce	quotes/discovering-that-i-am-nobody.html	connection	We are all aware, if we have ever tried it, how empty and ghostly is a life lived for a long while in absolute solitude. Free me from my fellows, let me alone to work out the salvation of my own glorious self, and surely (so I may fancy) I shall now for the first time show who I am. No, not so; on the contrary I merely show in such a case who I am not. I am no longer friend, brother, companion, co-worker, servant, citizen, father, son; I exist for nobody; and ere-long, perhaps to my surprise, generally to my horror, I discover that I <em>am</em> nobody. 
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Art is a Hammer	Bertolt Brecht	quotes/art-is-a-hammer.html	art, individuals	Art is not a mirror held up to reality, but a hammer with which to shape it.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-05-24 15:57:36	Art is a lie that makes us realize truth	Pablo Picasso	quotes/art-is-a-lie-that-makes-us-realize-truth.html	art	We all know that Art is not truth. Art is a lie that makes us realize truth, at least the truth that is given us to understand. The artist must know the manner whereby to convince others of the truthfulness of his lies. If he only shows in his work that he has searched, and re-searched, for the way to put over lies, he would never accomplish anything.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Do the Right Thing	Mark Twain	quotes/do-the-right-thing.html	individuals	Do the right thing. It will gratify some people and astonish the rest.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-07-13 13:40:38	The Underlying Principle of the Problem	Steve Jobs	quotes/the-underlying-principle-of-the-problem.html	critical thinking	When you start looking at a problem and it seems really simple, you don't really understand the complexity of the problem. Then you get into the problem, and you see that it's really complicated, and you come up with all these convoluted solutions. That's sort of the middle, and that's where most people stop.... But the really great person will keep on going and find the key, the underlying principle of the problem -- and come up with an elegant, really beautiful solution that works. That's what we wanted to do with Mac.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:32	Learning from Experience	Peter Senge	quotes/learning-from-experience.html	critical thinking, education, systemic	The most powerful learning comes from direct experience. But what happens when we can no longer observe the consequences of our actions? Herein lies the core <em>learning dilemma</em> that confronts organizations:<em> we learn best from experience but we never directly experience the consequences of many of our most important decisions.</em> The most critical decisions made in organizations have systemwide consequences that stretch over years or decades.
Quotes	Quotation	2011-04-22 06:05:01	The center of every man's existence is a dream	G. K. Chesterton	quotes/the-center-of-every-mans-existence-is-a-dream.html	humanism	The center of every man's existence is a dream. Death, disease, insanity, are merely material accidents, like a toothache or a twisted ankle. That these brutal forces always besiege and often capture the citadel does not prove that they are the citadel. 
Quotes	Quotation	2016-11-28 08:52:16	Most sociopolitical hierarchies lack a logical or biological basis	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/most-sociopolitical-hierarchies-lack-a-logical-or-biological-basis.html	cultural evolution	Most sociopolitical hierarchies lack a logical or biological basis -- they are nothing but the perpetuation of chance events supported by myths.
Quotes	Quotation	2019-01-26 09:05:26	Most humans desire cultural stability, not change	Stephen E. Nash	quotes/most-humans-desire-cultural-stability-not-change.html	progress	All of this confirms something that I’ve long suspected: Most humans, until very recently, desired and maintained cultural stability, not change. Change was a threat and was embraced only when absolutely necessary.
Quotes	Quotation	2009-01-06 19:42:52	Postel’s Law	Jon Postel	quotes/postels-law.html	diversity, liberty	Be conservative in what you do; be liberal in what you accept from others.
Quotes	Quotation	2016-11-20 11:23:35	When his salary depends on his not understanding it	Upton Sinclair	quotes/when-his-salary-depends-on-his-not-understanding-it.html	critical thinking	It is difficult to get a man to understand something, when his salary depends on his not understanding it.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-01-20 12:28:31	Single Garment of Destiny	Martin Luther King Jr.	quotes/single-garment-of-destiny.html	connection	We are tied together in the single garment of destiny, caught in an inescapable network of mutuality. And whatever affects one directly affects all indirectly.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-06-21 11:15:21	The Opposite of Popularizing Economics	Yanis Varoufakis	quotes/the-opposite-of-popularizing-economics.html	democracy, education, society	This is why this book is my attempt to do the opposite of popularizing economics: if it succeeds, it should incite its readers to take the economy into their own hands and make them realize that to understand the economy they also have to understand why the self-appointed experts on the economy, the economists, are almost always wrong. Ensuring that everyone is allowed to talk authoritatively about the economy is a prerequisite for a good society and a precondition for an authentic democracy. The economy's ups and downs determine our lives; its forces make a mockery of our democracies; its tentacles reach deep into our souls, where they shape our hopes and aspirations. If we defer to the experts on the economy, we effectively hand them *all* decisions that matter. 
Quotes	Quotation	2008-05-21 19:41:18	Occasions When the Intellect Retires Gracefully	Margery Allingham	quotes/occasions-when-the-intellect-retires-gracefully.html	critical thinking	There are occasions when the intellect retires gracefully from a situation entirely behind its decorous control and leaves all the other complicated machinery of the mind to muddle through on its own.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-10-11 12:59:45	When I get a little money I buy books	Desiderius Erasmus	quotes/when-i-get-a-little-money-i-buy-books.html	written word	When I get a little money I buy books; and if any is left I buy food and clothes.
Quotes	Quotation	2009-01-20 20:47:20	A Return to These Truths	Barack Obama	quotes/a-return-to-these-truths.html	progress	Our challenges may be new. The instruments with which we meet them may be new. But those values upon which our success depends -- hard work and honesty, courage and fair play, tolerance and curiosity, loyalty and patriotism -- these things are old. These things are true. They have been the quiet force of progress throughout our history. What is demanded then is a return to these truths.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-10-26 19:46:43	The Real Problem of Humanity	E. O. Wilson	quotes/the-real-problem-of-humanity.html	cultural evolution, humanism	The real problem of humanity is the following: we have paleolithic emotions; medieval institutions; and god-like technology.
Quotes	Quotation	2014-03-13 06:15:56	When you can measure what you are speaking about	Lord Kelvin	quotes/when-you-can-measure-what-you-are-speaking-about.html	science	I often say that when you can measure what you are speaking about, and express it in numbers, you know something about it; but when you cannot express it in numbers, your knowledge is of a meagre and unsatisfactory kind; it may be the beginning of knowledge, but you have scarcely, in your thoughts, advanced to the stage of <em>science</em>, whatever the matter may be.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-04-12 15:24:32	Guided missiles and misguided men	Martin Luther King Jr.	quotes/guided-missiles-and-misguided-men.html	equality	When scientific power outruns moral power, we end up with guided missiles and misguided men. When we foolishly maximize the minimum and minimize the maximum, we sign the warrant for our own day of doom. It is this moral lag in our thing-oriented society that blinds us to the human reality around us and encourages us in the greed and the exploitation which creates the sector of poverty in the midst of wealth.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-06-21 11:29:55	Generosity is the robust strategy	Tim O'Reilly	quotes/generosity-is-the-robust-strategy.html	equality	It is deeply unfortunate how difficult it is for humans to practice foresight. In his wise and insightful book, *The Wealth of Humans*, senior editor for the *Economist* Ryan Avent traces the lessons that we could and should take from the centuries of economic and political struggle that led from the innovations of the industrial revolution to the successful economies of the second half of the twentieth century. Prosperity came when the fruits of productivity were widely shared; enmity, political turmoil, and even outright warfare were the harvest of rampant inequality. It is obvious that generosity is the robust strategy. 
Quotes	Quotation	2016-01-05 19:40:57	Think globally, act locally	Disputed	quotes/think-globally-act-locally.html	connection, individuals	Think globally, act locally.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-03-26 13:13:49	Our privileges can be no greater than our obligations	John F. Kennedy	quotes/our-privileges-can-be-no-greater-than-our-obligations.html	individuals, liberty	But this Nation was not founded solely on the principle of citizens' rights. Equally important, though too often not discussed, is the citizen's responsibility. For our privileges can be no greater than our obligations. The protection of our rights can endure no longer than the performance of our responsibilities. Each can be neglected only at the peril of the other. I speak to you today, therefore, not of your rights as Americans, but of your responsibilities. They are many in number and different in nature. They do not rest with equal weight upon the shoulders of all. Equality of opportunity does not mean equality of responsibility. All Americans must be responsible citizens, but some must be more responsible than others, by virtue of their public or their private position, their role in the family or community, their prospects for the future, or their legacy from the past. Increased responsibility goes with increased ability, for "of those to whom much is given, much is required."
Quotes	Quotation	2010-10-31 18:30:54	Ism-mania	Robert Riskin	quotes/ism-mania.html	diversity	Grandpa: Penny why don't you write a play about ism-mania? Penny: Ism-mania? Grandpa: Yeah, sure, you know -- communism, fascism, voodooism. Everybody's got an ism these days. Penny: I feel like I've got this itch or something. Grandpa: It's just as catching. When things go a little bad nowadays, you go out and get yourself an ism and you're in business. Penny: I've got it! It might help Cynthia to have an ism in the monastery! Grandpa: It might at that. Only give her Americanism. Let her know something about Americans: John Paul Jones, Patrick Henry, Samuel Adams, Washington, Jefferson, Monroe, Lincoln, Grant, Lee, Edison, Mark Twain. When things got tough for those boys, they didn't run around looking for isms. Lincoln said, "With malice toward none, with charity for all." Nowadays they say, "Think the way I do, or I'll bomb the daylights out of you."
Quotes	Quotation	2007-02-10 15:04:57	Everybody Has Some Important Pieces of the Truth	Ken Wilber	quotes/everybody-has-some-important-pieces-of-the-truth.html	integral	My work is an attempt to make room in the Kosmos for all of the dimensions, levels, domains, waves, memes, modes, individuals, cultures, and so on ad infinitum. I have one major rule: Everybody is right. More specifically, everybody -- including me -- has some important pieces of truth, and all of those pieces need to be honored, cherished, and included in a more gracious, spacious, and compassionate embrace.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Careful, thoughtful, small, practical efforts	Joseph L. Badaracco, Jr.	quotes/careful-thoughtful-small-practical-efforts.html	individuals, practical	The vast majority of difficult, important human problems -- both inside and outside organizations -- are not solved by a swift, decisive stroke from someone at the top. What usually matters are careful, thoughtful, small, practical efforts by people working far from the limelight.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-07-27 11:11:48	Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself	Jesus	quotes/thou-shalt-love-thy-neighbour-as-thyself.html	love	Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. 
Quotes	Quotation	2011-06-24 20:17:22	Quality Matters	Dambisa Moyo	quotes/quality-matters.html	education	Quality matters, and much of the evidence suggests that while developing countries are encouraging and fostering meritocracy, their Western rivals are increasingly approaching academe with an egalitarian flare -- more access (of course, with the benefit of widening educational opportunity) even if at the expense of quality. 
Quotes	Quotation	2011-08-30 19:39:19	We have wonderful arguments	Steve Jobs	quotes/we-have-wonderful-arguments.html	critical thinking, equality	Jobs: What I do all day is meet with teams of people and work on ideas and solve problems to make new products, to make new marketing programs, whatever it is. Mossberg: And are people willing to tell you you're wrong? Jobs: (laughs) Yeah. Mossberg: I mean, other than snarky journalists, I mean people that work for… Jobs: Oh, yeah, no we have wonderful arguments. Mossberg: And do you win them all? Jobs: Oh no I wish I did. No, you see you can't. If you want to hire great people and have them stay working for you, you have to let them make a lot of decisions and you have to, you have to be run by ideas, not hierarchy. The best ideas have to win, otherwise good people don't stay. Mossberg: But you must be more than a facilitator who runs meetings. You obviously contribute your own ideas. Jobs: I contribute ideas, sure. Why would I be there if I didn't? 
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:32	Freedom of Expression in Business	Tom Peters and Robert H. Waterman Jr.	quotes/freedom-of-expression-in-business.html	connection, liberty	...note that this implicit recognition of the right-side traits by the excellent companies is directly at the expense of more traditional left-brain business practices: causes to fight for are a long way from thirty quarterly MBO objectives. The intimate team or small division ignores scale economies. Allowing freedom of expression by thousands of quality circles flies in the face of the 'one best way' of traditional production organization.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-13 15:40:18	Each man is questioned by life	Victor Frankl	quotes/each-man-is-questioned-by-life.html	mission	Ultimately, man should not ask what the meaning of his life is, but rather must recognize that it is he who is asked. In a word, each man is questioned by life; and he can only answer to life by answering for his own life; to life he can only respond by being responsible.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-10-20 14:01:54	Integrity and Conviction	Wynton Marsalis	quotes/integrity-and-conviction.html	love	The best jazz had always been the embodiment of integrity and conviction. Because the musicians' skills and competence were so hard-earned, it was difficult to get them to compromise. Once jazzmen began making the decision to water down their artistry for notoriety, publicity, or money, our art began to face the same challenges that our government and many businesses face: dearth of leadership, lack of quality, loss of meaning, insensitivity to people--ultimately a wholesale loss of faith: 'Well, what is jazz, anyway?''What difference does it make what I play?'
Quotes	Quotation	2013-06-27 04:12:18	We All Derive From the Same Source	Henry Miller	quotes/we-all-derive-from-the-same-source.html	art, equality, humanism, individuals	Every day we slaughter our finest impulses. That is why we get a heartache when we read those lines written by the hand of a master and recognize them as our own, as the tender shoots which we stifled because we lacked the faith to believe in our own powers, our own criterion of truth and beauty. Every man, when he gets quiet, when he becomes desperately honest with himself, is capable of uttering profound truths. We all derive from the same source. there is no mystery about the origin of things. We are all part of creation, all kings, all poets, all musicians; we have only to open up, only to discover what is already there.
Quotes	Quotation	2016-10-23 14:48:01	That Magical Honeycomb of Words	Tom Robbins	quotes/that-magical-honeycomb-of-words.html	art, stories, written word	...language, that magical honeycomb of words into which human reality is forever dissolving and from which it continually reemerges, having invented itself anew. The adjective in the lotus. The jewel in the inkwell. A blue dolphin leaping from a sink of dirty dishes.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-11-02 08:12:54	Records we made together in the sixties	Joe Boyd	quotes/records-we-made-together-in-the-sixties.html	art, connection	These days most engineers confronted with a displeasing sound reach for the knobs on the console and tweak the high, mid or low frequencies. When that process is inflicted on more and more tracks of a multi-channel recording the sound passes through dozens of transistors, resulting in a narrower, more confined sound. With the added limitations of digital sound, you end up with a bright and shiny, thin and two-dimensional recording. To my ears anyway. When John [Wood] heard a sound he didn't like, he would lift his bulky frame off the chair and lumber down the stairs, muttering all the way. I began to be able to predict whether he was going to try a different microphone, reposition the existing one or shift the offending musician to another part of the studio. When I listen to records we made together in the sixties, I can still hear the air in the studio and the full dimension of the sounds the musicians created for us. I can hear the depth of Nick Drake's breath as well as his voice, the grit in the crude strings of Robin Williamson's <cite>gimbri</cite> and Dave Mattacks' drum technique spread out warmly in aural Technicolor across the stereo spectrum.
Quotes	Quotation	2011-07-11 05:05:21	Between Saturday night and Sunday morning	Jimmy Buffet	quotes/between-saturday-night-and-sunday-morning.html	imperfection	Oh, there's a thin line between Saturday night and Sunday morning.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-04-09 16:34:57	We are idealists and we are realists	Alan Lightman	quotes/we-are-idealists-and-we-are-realists.html	integral	We are idealists and we are realists. We are dreamers and we are builders. We are experiencers and we are experimenters. We long for certainties, yet we ourselves are full of the ambiguities of the Mona Lisa and the I Ching. We ourselves are a part of the yin-yang of the world.
Quotes	Quotation	2012-10-22 05:30:34	Seeing the Bigger Picture from Multiple Angles	Jeff Bezos and Jason Fried	quotes/seeing-the-bigger-picture-from-multiple-angles.html	critical thinking, diversity, integral	He [Jeff Bezos] said people who were right a lot of the time <em>were people who often changed their minds</em>. He doesn't think consistency of thought is a particularly positive trait. It's perfectly healthy -- encouraged, even -- to have an idea tomorrow that contradicted your idea today. He's observed that the smartest people are constantly revising their understanding, reconsidering a problem they thought they'd already solved. They're open to new points of view, new information, new ideas, contradictions, and challenges to their own way of thinking. This doesn't mean you shouldn't have a well formed point of view, but it means you should consider your point of view as temporary. What trait signified someone who was <em>wrong</em> a lot of the time? Someone obsessed with details that only support one point of view. If someone can't climb out of the details, and see the bigger picture from multiple angles, they're often wrong most of the time.
Quotes	Quotation	2019-02-25 16:57:57	The growth of firms	Edith Penrose	quotes/the-growth-of-firms.html	value creation	All the evidence we have indicates that the growth of firms is connected with the attempts of a particular group of human beings to do something.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-04-12 15:38:47	Creatively Maladjusted	Martin Luther King Jr.	quotes/creatively-maladjusted.html	individuals	There is a need now more than ever before for men and women in our nation to be creatively maladjusted. And I say to you that I choose to be among the maladjusted. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-10-03 19:03:18	I learned a lot of things from failure	Brooks Robinson	quotes/i-learned-a-lot-of-things-from-failure.html	imperfection	I learned a lot of things from failure. When you play 162 games, I don't think any sport emulates life like baseball. You play football once a week or basketball twice. But you start playing baseball, you play every day, day in and day out. And you understand in a hurry that you're going to have bad days and bad nights. You're going to have bad weeks, and you just have to make up your mind that, hey, tomorrow's tomorrow, and you forget about it. 
Quotes	Quotation	2014-09-04 03:51:11	The Cult of Ignorance	Isaac Asimov	quotes/the-cult-of-ignorance.html	critical thinking	There is a cult of ignorance in the United States, and there always has been. The strain of anti-intellectualism has been a constant thread winding its way through our political and cultural life, nurtured by the false notion that democracy means that 'my ignorance is just as good as your knowledge.'
Quotes	Quotation	2018-04-09 16:46:51	Bathing in mystery and confusion	Carl Sagan	quotes/bathing-in-mystery-and-confusion.html	wonder	I don’t mean to suggest that we have the final answers; we are bathing in mystery and confusion on many subjects, and I think that will always be our destiny. The universe will always be much richer than our ability to understand it.
Quotes	Quotation	2011-04-22 06:06:37	Conservatives and Progressives	G. K. Chesterton	quotes/conservatives-and-progressives.html	governance, progress	The whole modern world has divided itself into Conservatives and Progressives. The business of Progressives is to go on making mistakes. The business of Conservatives is to prevent mistakes from being corrected. Even when the revolutionist might himself repent of his revolution, the traditionalist is already defending it as part of his tradition. Thus we have two great types -- the advanced person who rushes us into ruin, and the retrospective person who admires the ruins. He admires them especially by moonlight, not to say moonshine. Each new blunder of the progressive or prig becomes instantly a legend of immemorial antiquity for the snob. This is called the balance, or mutual check, in our Constitution. 
Quotes	Quotation	2007-02-28 05:28:16	To see a world in a grain of sand	William Blake	quotes/to-see-a-world-in-a-grain-of-sand.html	art, love	To see a world in a grain of sand And heaven in a wild flower Hold infinity in the palm of your hand And eternity in an hour.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-07-29 17:58:54	The wonder remains	Alfred North Whitehead	quotes/the-wonder-remains.html	wonder	Philosophy begins in wonder. And, at the end, when philosophic thought has done its best, the wonder remains. 
Quotes	Quotation	2017-03-16 14:13:41	When old men plant trees	anonymous	quotes/when-old-men-plant-trees.html	mission	A society grows great when old men plant trees whose shade they know they shall never sit in.
Quotes	Quotation	2013-12-28 13:09:27	Critical Thinking Followed by Action	Dalai Lama	quotes/critical-thinking-followed-by-action.html	critical thinking, individuals, progress, stories	Interviewer: What's the most important meditation we can do now? Dalai Lama: Critical thinking, followed by action. Discern what your world is. Know the plot, the scenario of this human drama. And then figure out where your talents might fit in to make a better world.
Quotes	Quotation	2013-01-03 05:42:18	Little things seen largely	Otto Jespersen	quotes/little-things-seen-largely.html	individuals	To anyone who finds that linguistic study is a worthless finicking with trifles, I would reply that life consists of little things; the important matter is to see them largely. 
Quotes	Quotation	2017-11-06 11:57:15	The system has been shaping and reshaping our minds	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/the-system-has-been-shaping-and-reshaping-our-minds.html	cultural evolution	For thousands of years the system has been shaping and reshaping our minds according to its needs. Sapiens originally evolved as members of small intimate communities, and their mental faculties were not adapted to living as cogs within a giant machine. However, with the rise of cities, kingdoms and empires, the system cultivated capacities required for large-scale cooperation, while disregarding other skills and aptitudes. 
Quotes	Quotation	2011-09-01 06:31:28	Technology married with the humanities	Steve Jobs	quotes/technology-married-with-the-humanities.html	integral	Technology alone is not enough. It's technology married with the liberal arts, married with the humanities, that yields the results that makes our hearts sing. Nowhere is that more true than in these post-PC devices… that need to be even easier to use than a PC, that need to be even more intuitive than a PC; and where the software and the hardware and the applications need to intertwine in an even more seamless way than they do on a PC. We think we are on the right track with this. We think we have the right architecture not just in silicon but in the organization to build these kinds of products.
Quotes	Quotation	2013-03-24 10:29:35	God and Morality	Frans de Waal	quotes/god-and-morality.html	religion, stories	It wasn't God who introduced us to morality; rather, it was the other way around. God was put into place to help us live the way we felt we ought to.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-15 16:24:42	That community asks for and gets chaos	Daniel Patrick Moynihan	quotes/that-community-asks-for-and-gets-chaos.html	parenthood	From the wild Irish slums of the 19th century Eastern seaboard, to the riot-torn suburbs of Los Angeles, there is one unmistakable lesson in American history; a community that allows a large number of men to grow up in broken families, dominated by women, never acquiring any stable relationship to male authority, never acquiring any set of rational expectations about the future -- that community asks for and gets chaos. Crime, violence, unrest, disorder -- most particularly the furious, unrestrained lashing out at the whole social structure -- that is not only to be expected; it is very near to inevitable. And it is richly deserved.
Quotes	Quotation	2011-01-18 04:57:18	Our Reply to Violence	Leonard Bernstein	quotes/our-reply-to-violence.html	art, love	This will be our reply to violence: to make music more intensely, more beautifully, more devotedly than ever before. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-13 14:14:25	We should always be fighting evil	Stan Lee	quotes/we-should-always-be-fighting-evil.html	mission	All I tried to do in my stories was show that there's some innate goodness in the human condition. And there's always going to be evil; we should always be fighting evil.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-07-20 16:07:12	Governments losing their ability to anticipate events	Edward Luce	quotes/governments-losing-their-ability-to-anticipate-events.html	balance, governance	Governments of all types -- democratic and authoritarian, small states and superpowers -- are losing their ability to anticipate events. They are thus losing the means to shape them. The days when national leaders could peer around the corner and head off coming dangers are receding. The best foreigh policy is conducted by calm minds in possession of the facts -- and shielded from the pressure to broadcast instant moral absolutes. The more time leaders have to weigh up their options the likelier they are to choose the right ones. The speed of technological change is working against them. 
Quotes	Quotation	2011-10-30 12:21:59	By Gifts One Makes Slaves	Peter Freuchen	quotes/by-gifts-one-makes-slaves.html	connection, equality	Up in our country we are human! said the hunter. 'And since we are human we help each other. We don't like to hear anybody say thanks for that. What I get today you may get tomorrow. Up here we say that by gifts one makes slaves and by whips one makes dogs.' 
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:32	Democracy is Worst Form of Government	Winston Churchill	quotes/democracy-is-worst-form-of-government.html	democracy, equality, governance	Democracy is the worst form of government, except for all those others that have been tried.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-05-30 12:17:42	Diversity Helps Your Business -- But Not The Way You Think	Katherine Phillips	quotes/diversity-helps-your-business-but-not-the-way-you-think.html	diversity	I recently published research ... that found that members of a social majority are more likely to voice unique perspectives and critically review task-relevant information when there is more social diversity present than when there is not. Moreover, this is true even when the people who are "different" don't express any unique perspectives themselves. Our research suggests that the mere presence of social diversity makes people with independent points of view more willing to voice those points of view, and others more willing to listen. In one of our studies, we compared homogeneous and diverse groups trying to solve a murder mystery. The diverse groups reported that they didn't work together very effectively, and they were less confident about their decisions than the homogeneous groups, yet they consistently outperformed those homogeneous groups.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-10-26 20:00:28	True Character	E. O. Wilson	quotes/true-character.html	individuals, religion, society	True character arises from a deeper well than religion. It is the internalization of moral principles of a society, augmented by those tenets personally chosen by the individual, strong enough to endure through trials of solitude and adversity. The principles are fitted together into what we call integrity, literally the integrated self, wherein personal decisions feel good and true. Character is in turn the enduring source of virtue. It stands by itself and excites admiration in others. It is not obedience to authority, and while it is often consistent with and reinforced by religious belief, it is not piety.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-07-18 15:08:07	The axis is constructive-destructive	Steve Jobs	quotes/the-axis-is-constructive-destructive.html	mission	The axis today is not liberal and conservative, the axis is constructive-destructive, and you've cast your lot with the destructive people. Fox has become an incredibly destructive force in our society. You can be better, and this is going to be your legacy if you're not careful.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-05-20 13:21:32	To simply see human beings	Charles Woodson	quotes/to-simply-see-human-beings.html	humanism	If I ask you all today to look around and tell me who you see.... When you look around, I don't want you to see black, white, Asian, I don't want you to wonder if a person is Democrat or Republican, gay or straight. When you look around, I just want you to simply see human beings -- nothing more, nothing less. And I guarantee you, if you can begin to see people that way, just as human beings, you'll begin to treat them a little differently, you'll begin to understand their points of view. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-07-20 10:23:14	History is not some self-driving car	Edward Luce	quotes/history-is-not-some-self-driving-car.html	equality, individuals	But I have grave doubts about history's long arc. History is not some self-driving car taking humanity to a pre-set destination. Whichever human is behind the wheel must ensure the others stay in the car. Telling some of the passengers they have no business in the driver's seat because they are clueless about the destination will sooner or later result in a crash. 'Take back control' was the chant of Brexiteers and Trump voters alike. It is the war cry of populist backlashes across the Western world. 
Quotes	Quotation	2012-02-04 06:27:37	Steve Jobs Ideals	Ron Johnson	quotes/steve-jobs-ideals.html	practical, progress	Q. What ideals have you embraced from Steve Jobs? A. The importance of doing everything you do to your very best. And that the journey is the reward. If you do things well one at a time, you end up in a really good place. Don't get ahead of yourself. Control the things you can.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-02-15 09:59:53	A Man of Value	Albert Einstein	quotes/a-man-of-value.html	value creation	Try to become not a man of success, but try rather to become a man of value.
Quotes	Quotation	2016-12-28 08:17:44	The Awesome Power of Culture	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/the-awesome-power-of-culture.html	cultural evolution	Millions of years of evolution have designed us to live and think as community members. Within a mere two centuries we have become alienated individuals. Nothing testifies better to the awesome power of culture.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-11-02 07:13:25	History as Postmodern Collage	Joe Boyd	quotes/history-as-postmodern-collage.html	art	Sitting in Princeteon listening to old records, we became obsessed with the past. We tried to pierce the veil of time and grasp what it sounded, felt, looked and smelled like. In Harvard Square and London I met many with similar preoccupations; they didn't seem unusual at all. When old blues singers began to reappear, it delivered a rush of excitement and adrenalin. Meeting and traveling with Gary Davis and Lonnie Johnson -- even Coleman Hawkins -- armoured me against a host of disappointments. History today seems more like a postmodern collage; we are surrounded by two-dimensional representations of our heritage. Access via Amazon.com or iPod to all those boxed sets of old blues singers -- or Nick Drake, for that matter -- doesn't equate with the sense of discovery and connection we experienced.
Quotes	Quotation	2016-12-28 12:00:21	A Completely Free Market	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/a-completely-free-market.html	balance, governance	In a completely free market, unsupervised by kings and priests, avaricious capitalists can establish monopolies or collude against their workforces. If there is a single corporation controlling all shoe factories in a country, or if all factory owners conspire to reduce wages simultaneously, then the labourers are no longer able to protect themselves by switching jobs.
Quotes	Quotation	2012-07-23 19:17:01	Daily Acts of Trivia	Robert Heinlein	quotes/daily-acts-of-trivia.html	progress	In the absence of clearly defined goals, we become strangely loyal to performing daily acts of trivia.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-03-26 13:18:19	Defending the pursuit of learning	John F. Kennedy	quotes/defending-the-pursuit-of-learning.html	education	If the pursuit of learning is not defended by the educated citizen, it will not be defended at all. For there will always be those who scoff at intellectuals, who cry out against research, who seek to limit our educational system. Modern cynics and skeptics see no more reason for landing a man on the moon, which we shall do, than the cynics and skeptics of half a millennium ago saw for the discovery of this country. They see no harm in paying those to whom they entrust the minds of their children a smaller wage than is paid to those to whom they entrust the care of their plumbing. But the educated citizen knows how much more there is to know. He knows that "knowledge is power," more so today than ever before. He knows that only an educated and informed people will be a free people, that the ignorance of one voter in a democracy impairs the security of all, and that if we can, as Jefferson put it, "enlighten the people generally ... tyranny and the oppressions of mind and body will vanish, like evil spirits at the dawn of day." And, therefore, the educated citizen has a special obligation to encourage the pursuit of learning, to promote exploration of the unknown, to preserve the freedom of inquiry, to support the advancement of research, and to assist at every level of government the improvement of education for all Americans, from grade school to graduate school.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-02-21 11:12:26	Nordic societies have simply taken the job of government seriously	Anu Partanen	quotes/nordic-societies-have-simply-taken-the-job-of-government-seriously.html	governance	Overall the secret to Nordic success is not complicated. Nordic societies have simply taken the job of government seriously. They make mistakes and have their troubles, but they keep tweaking their systems in search of improvements, and they work hard to balance the books. They prove that there is nothing inherent in government that automatically makes it less efficient for arranging social services than the private sector. 
Quotes	Quotation	2017-04-21 08:53:54	Imagination is not a means of making money	Ursula K. Le Guin	quotes/imagination-is-not-a-means-of-making-money.html	humanism	In America the imagination is generally looked on as something that might be useful when the TV is out of order. Poetry and plays have no relation to practical politics. Novels are for students, housewives, and other people who don't work. Fantasy is for children and primitive peoples. Literacy is so you can read the operating instructions. I think the imagination is the single most useful tool mankind possesses. It beats the opposable thumb. I can imagine living without my thumbs, but not without my imagination. I hear voices agreeing with me. "Yes, yes!" they cry. "The creative imagination is a tremendous plus in business! We value creativity, we reward it!" In the marketplace, the word creativity has come to mean the generation of ideas applicable to practical strategies to make larger profits. This reduction has gone on so long that the word creative can hardly be degraded further. I don't use it any more, yielding it to capitalists and academics to abuse as they like. But they can't have imagination. Imagination is not a means of making money. It has no place in the vocabulary of profit-making. It is not a weapon, though all weapons originate from it, and their use, or non-use, depends on it, as with all tools and their uses. The imagination is an essential tool of the mind, a fundamental way of thinking, an indispensable means of becoming and remaining human.
Quotes	Quotation	2007-04-10 15:11:35	Wriggling	E. M. Forster	quotes/wriggling.html	individuals	Failure or success seem to have been allotted to men by their stars. But they retain the power of wriggling, of fighting with their star or against it, and in the whole universe the only really interesting movement is this wriggle.
Quotes	Quotation	2009-04-02 19:50:16	The Makers of Things	Barack Obama	quotes/the-makers-of-things.html	cultural evolution, individuals, progress	In reaffirming the greatness of our nation, we understand that greatness is never a given. It must be earned. Our journey has never been one of shortcuts or settling for less. It has not been the path for the faint-hearted -- for those who prefer leisure over work, or seek only the pleasures of riches and fame. Rather, it has been the risk-takers, the doers, the makers of things -- some celebrated but more often men and women obscure in their labor, who have carried us up the long, rugged path towards prosperity and freedom.
Quotes	Quotation	2011-08-01 12:42:03	ESPN president meets Steve Jobs	Tom Shales and James Andrew Miller	quotes/espn-president-meets-steve-jobs.html	critical thinking, equality	The story goes that ESPN president George Bodenheimer attended the first Disney board meeting in Orlando, Florida, just after the company had bought Pixar, the innovative animation factory, and spotted Apple CEO Steve Jobs in a hallway. It seemed like a good time to introduce himself. "I am George Bodenheimer," he said to Jobs. "I run ESPN." Jobs just looked at him and said nothing other than "Your phone is the dumbest fucking idea I have ever heard," then turned and walked away.
Quotes	Quotation	2019-02-17 11:40:20	The Most Precious Kind of Freedom	David Foster Wallace	quotes/the-most-precious-kind-of-freedom.html	liberty	But there are all different kinds of freedom, and the kind that is most precious you will not hear much talked about in the great outside world of winning and achieving and displaying. The really important kind of freedom involves attention, and awareness, and discipline, and effort, and being able truly to care about other people and to sacrifice for them, over and over, in myriad petty little unsexy ways, every day. That is real freedom. The alternative is unconsciousness, the default setting, the "rat race" -- the constant gnawing sense of having had and lost some infinite thing.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-12-06 18:06:16	The welfare of the whole human race	Arnold J. Toynbee	quotes/the-welfare-of-the-whole-human-race.html	mission, society	The twentieth century will be chiefly remembered by future generations not as an era of political conflicts or technical inventions, but as an age in which human society dared to think of the welfare of the whole human race as a practical objective. 
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	The Arc of History	Martin Luther King Jr.	quotes/the-arc-of-history.html	cultural evolution, equality	The arc of history is long, but it bends towards justice.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-07-30 19:37:55	We Must Respect the Other Fellow's Religion	H. L. Mencken	quotes/we-must-respect-the-other-fellows-religion.html	critical thinking, equality, religion	We must respect the other fellow's religion, but only in the sense and to the extent that we respect his theory that his wife is beautiful and his children smart.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-07-30 19:48:15	A book is a man's best friend	Groucho Marx	quotes/a-book-is-a-mans-best-friend.html	integral, written word	Outside of a dog, a book is a man's best friend. Inside of a dog, it's too dark to read.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-10-07 18:07:48	The Challenge of Swing	Wynton Marsalis	quotes/the-challenge-of-swing.html	connection, liberty	Swing--the dance and the music--bespeaks the flexible nature of American life. In jazz, the bass walks a note on every beat. The drummer rides the cymbal or plays brushes on every beat. And everybody else invents melodies and sounds that sway with, against, and upside every beat. Every beat requires musicians to reassess their relationships to one another. This is what makes swinging so challenging. You are forced to be constantly aware of other people's feelings.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-12-28 12:05:34	The economy is too important to leave to the economists	Yanis Varoufakis	quotes/the-economy-is-too-important-to-leave-to-the-economists.html	society	This book grew out of my Greek publisher's invitation, back in 2013, to talk directly to young people about the economy. My reason for writing it was the conviction that the economy is too important to leave to the economists. 
Quotes	Quotation	2011-04-22 06:08:09	The difference between construction and creation	G. K. Chesterton	quotes/the-difference-between-construction-and-creation.html	love	The whole difference between construction and creation is exactly this: that a thing constructed can only be loved after it is constructed; but a thing created is loved before it exists, as the mother can love the unborn child. 
Quotes	Quotation	2008-06-01 10:06:31	The Columbia Disaster	Dennis Stauffer	quotes/the-columbia-disaster.html	critical thinking, equality	Dr. Sally Ride, the first American woman in space and a member of the investigating board, believes that the Columbia tragedy and the 1986 Challenger Space Shuttle disaster resulted from the same mindset, saying: '(NASA) managers...did not grab onto this problem and insist on an answer. It was really quite the opposite. They assumed they knew the answer. They assumed the foam was not going to be a problem. And they were insisting that people disprove the preconception they had.'
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-15 16:24:42	Living with the strains of complexity	Daniel Patrick Moynihan	quotes/living-with-the-strains-of-complexity.html	governance	Political society wants things simple. Political scientists know them to be complex... One could argue that, in part, the leftist impulse is so conspicuous among the educated and well-to-do precisely because they are exposed to more information, and are accordingly forced to choose between living with the strains of complexity, or lapsing into simplism.
Quotes	Quotation	2016-11-28 08:47:42	From a biological perspective, nothing is unnatural	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/from-a-biological-perspective-nothing-is-unnatural.html	cultural evolution	Culture tends to argue that it forbids only that which is unnatural. But from a biological perspective, nothing is unnatural. Whatever is possible is by definition also natural. A truly unnatural behaviour, one that goes against the laws of nature, simply cannot exist, so it would need no prohibition. No culture has ever bothered to forbid men to photosynthesise, women to run faster than the speed of light, or negatively charged electrons to be attracted to each other. In truth, our concepts 'natural' and ‘unnatural' are taken not from biology, but from Christian theology. The theological meaning of ‘natural' is ‘in accordance with the intentions of the God who created nature'. Christian theologians argued that God created the human body, intending each limb and organ to serve a particular purpose. If we use our limbs and organs for the purpose envisioned by God, then it is a natural activity. To use them differently than God intends is unnatural. But evolution has no purpose.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-10-26 10:56:02	Thinking should be generous and have a good appetite	Sarah Bakewell	quotes/thinking-should-be-generous-and-have-a-good-appetite.html	critical thinking	Thinking should be generous and have a good appetite. I find life far too valuable these days to shut out most of its variety in favour of digging down into the depths....
Quotes	Quotation	2018-01-16 08:09:27	Intelligence plus Character	Martin Luther King Jr.	quotes/intelligence-plus-character.html	education	We must remember that intelligence is not enough. Intelligence plus character -- that is the goal of true education. 
Quotes	Quotation	2007-12-02 13:10:14	A Long Conversation	Bruce Springsteen	quotes/a-long-conversation.html	art, connection	At this point, I'm in the middle of a very long conversation with my audience. It's an ongoing dialogue about what living means. You create a space together. You are involved in an act of the imagination together, imagining the life you want to live, the kind of country you want to live in, the kind of place you want to leave to your children. What are the things that bring you ecstasy and bliss, what are the things that bring on the darkness, and what can we do together to combat those things? That's the dialogue I have in my imagination when I'm writing. I have it in front of me when I'm performing.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-06-27 17:56:34	A diminishing sense of shared humanity	Brené Brown	quotes/a-diminishing-sense-of-shared-humanity.html	connection, love	In grounded theory, researchers try to understand what we call 'the main concern' of study participants. When it comes to belonging, I asked: What are people trying to achieve? What are they worried about? The answer was surprisingly complex. They want to be a part of something -- to experience real connection with others -- but not at the cost of their authenticity, freedom, or power. Participants further reported feeling surrounded by 'us versus them' cultures that create feelings of spiritual disconnection. When I dug deeper into what they meant by 'spiritually disconnected,' the research participants described a diminishing sense of shared humanity. Over and over, participants talked about their concern that the only thing that binds us together now is shared fear and disdain, not common humanity, shared trust, respect or love. 
Quotes	Quotation	2010-08-15 07:52:59	A Happy Man	Albert Einstein	quotes/a-happy-man.html	progress	A happy man is too satisfied with the present to dwell too much on the future.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-11-06 12:02:36	The brightest goat in the herd	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/the-brightest-goat-in-the-herd.html	cultural evolution	As any farmer knows, it's usually the brightest goat in the herd that stirs up the most trouble, which is why the Agricultural Revolution involved downgrading animals' mental abilities. The second cognitive revolution, dreamed up by techno-humanists, might do the same to us, producing human cogs who communicate and process data far more effectively than ever before, but who can barely pay attention, dream or doubt. 
Quotes	Quotation	2011-12-03 08:28:38	Labor is the Superior of Capital	Abraham Lincoln	quotes/labor-is-the-superior-of-capital.html	governance, individuals, society	Labor is prior to, and independent of, capital. Capital is only the fruit of labor, and could never have existed if labor had not first existed. Labor is the superior of capital, and deserves much the higher consideration. 
Quotes	Quotation	2008-08-04 21:12:04	Dreams Come True	John Updike	quotes/dreams-come-true.html	stories, wonder	Dreams come true. Without that possibility, nature would not incite us to have them.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-10-27 20:15:50	Violent Opposition from Mediocre Minds	Albert Einstein	quotes/violent-opposition-from-mediocre-minds.html	critical thinking, science	Great spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre minds. The mediocre mind is incapable of understanding the man who refuses to bow blindly to conventional prejudices and chooses instead to express his opinions courageously and honestly.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-10-27 11:29:54	I'll take the big sordid dirty crooked city	Raymond Chandler	quotes/ill-take-the-big-sordid-dirty-crooked-city.html	cultural evolution, imperfection, society	The other part of me wanted to get out and stay out. But this was the part I never listened to. Because if I ever had I would have stayed in the town where I was born and worked in the hardware store and married the boss's daughter and had five kids and read them the funny paper on Sunday morning and smacked their heads when they got out of line and squabbled with the wife about how much spending money they were to get and what programs they could have on the radio or TV set. I might even have got rich -- small-town rich, an eight-room house, two cars in the garage, chicken every Sunday and the <em>Reader's Digest</em> on the living room table, the wife with a cast iron permanent and me with a brain like a sack of Portland cement. You take it, friend. I'll take the big sordid dirty crooked city. 
Quotes	Quotation	2011-04-22 06:09:00	Generosity Among the Rich	G. K. Chesterton	quotes/generosity-among-the-rich.html	connection	Among the rich you will never find a really generous man even by accident. They may give their money away, but they will never give themselves away; they are egotistic, secretive, dry as old bones. To be smart enough to get all that money you must be dull enough to want it. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-05-27 07:35:51	Discoveries and Inventions	Abraham Lincoln	quotes/discoveries-and-inventions.html	science	Beavers build houses; but they build them in nowise differently, or better, now than they did five thousand years ago.... Man is not the only animal who labors; but he is the only one who improves his workmanship. These improvements he effects by Discoveries and Inventions. 
Quotes	Quotation	2007-09-29 07:47:36	Merely a Muddle	Michael Innes	quotes/merely-a-muddle.html	critical thinking	And your remarks on the text," Mr. Gott declared, "are merely a muddle. Yes, Gott," said Mike meekly. You see, Mike, you haven't any <em>brain</em> really. No, of course not," said Mike. You must just keep to the cackle and write nicely. You write very nicely. Yes," said Mike, dubiously. Keep off thinking things out, and you'll do well. In fact, you'll go far.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Easy Solutions	H. L. Mencken	quotes/easy-solutions.html	critical thinking	There is always an easy solution to every human problem -- neat, plausible and wrong.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-03-18 09:20:32	A bicycle for our minds	Steve Jobs	quotes/a-bicycle-for-our-minds.html	tools	I read a study that measured the efficiency of locomotion for various species on the planet. The condor used the least energy to move a kilometer. Humans came in with a rather unimpressive showing about a third of the way down the list. It was not too proud of a showing for the Crown of Creation. That didn't look so good, but then someone at Scientific American had the insight to test the efficiency of locomotion for a man on a bicycle and a human on a bicycle blew the condor away. That's what a computer is to me: the computer is the most remarkable tool that we've ever come up with. It's the equivalent of a bicycle for our minds.
Quotes	Quotation	2014-10-31 19:17:06	To prolong our presence on the face of the Earth	Jonas Salk	quotes/to-prolong-our-presence-on-the-face-of-the-earth.html	critical thinking, humanism, mission	What we're doing now is trying to think like nature, in the sense that we are aware that species that have gone before us have disappeared from the face of the Earth. We'd like to use our intelligence and our creative capacity to prolong our presence on the face of the Earth as long as possible. It requires, therefore, that we develop the kinds of tactics and strategies amongst ourselves so as to assure that this can occur, to assure that we will not destroy ourselves or the planet, to make it uninhabitable and to allow the fullness of the potential of the individual to be expressed, to flower.
Quotes	Quotation	2019-01-27 09:28:11	If you'll just rattle your jewelry	John Lennon	quotes/if-youll-just-rattle-your-jewelry.html	equality, society	For our last number, I'd like to ask your help. Would the people in the cheaper seats clap your hands. And the rest of you, if you'll just rattle your jewelry.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-01-16 07:56:58	Intelligent guides of family planning	Martin Luther King Jr.	quotes/intelligent-guides-of-family-planning.html	population	For the Negro, therefore, intelligent guides of family planning are a profoundly important ingredient in his quest for security and a decent life. There are mountainous obstacles still separating Negroes from a normal existence. Yet one element in stabilizing his life would be an understanding of and easy access to the means to develop a family related in size to his community environment and to the income potential he can command. This is not to suggest that the Negro will solve all his problems through Planned Parenthood. His problems are far more complex, encompassing economic security, education, freedom from discrimination, decent housing and access to culture. Yet if family planning is sensible it can facilitate or at least not be an obstacle to the solution of the many profound problems that plague him.
Quotes	Quotation	2012-08-03 23:01:54	Ten Commandments for Teachers	Bertrand Russell	quotes/ten-commandments-for-teachers.html	critical thinking, diversity, education, liberty	1. Do not feel absolutely certain of anything. 2. Do not think it worth while to proceed by concealing evidence, for the evidence is sure to come to light. 3. Never try to discourage thinking for you are sure to succeed. 4. When you meet with opposition, even if it should be from your husband or your children, endeavour to overcome it by argument and not by authority, for a victory dependent upon authority is unreal and illusory. 5. Have no respect for the authority of others, for there are always contrary authorities to be found. 6. Do not use power to suppress opinions you think pernicious, for if you do the opinions will suppress you. 7. Do not fear to be eccentric in opinion, for every opinion now accepted was once eccentric. 8. Find more pleasure in intelligent dissent that in passive agreement, for, if you value intelligence as you should, the former implies a deeper agreement than the latter. 9. Be scrupulously truthful, even if the truth is inconvenient, for it is more inconvenient when you try to conceal it. 10. Do not feel envious of the happiness of those who live in a fool's paradise, for only a fool will think that it is happiness.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-10-19 09:28:50	Levels of Development	Ken Wilber	quotes/levels-of-development.html	cultural evolution	To grasp what is involved with levels or stages, let's use a very simple model possessing only 3 of them. If we look at moral development, for example, we find that an infant at birth has not yet been socialized into the culture's ethics and conventions: this is called the <strong>preconventional stage</strong>. It is also called <strong>egocentric</strong>, in that the infant's awareness is largely self-absorbed. But as the young child begins to learns its culture's rules and norms, it grows into the <strong>conventional stage</strong> of morals. This stage is also called <strong>ethnocentric</strong>, in that it centers on the child's particular group, tribe, clan, or nation, and it therefore tends to exclude those not of its group. But at the next major stage of moral development, the <strong>postconventional stage</strong>, the individual's identity expands once again, this time to include a care and concern for all peoples, regardless of race, color, sex or creed, which is why this stage is also called <strong>worldcentric</strong>. Thus, moral development tends to move from 'me' (egocentric) to 'us' (ethnocentric) to 'all of us' (worldcentric)--a good example of the unfolding waves of consciousness.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-01-16 08:02:13	An ordinary person, doing an ordinary job	Martin Luther King Jr.	quotes/an-ordinary-person-doing-an-ordinary-job.html	individuals	I don't want you to forget it. No matter where you are today, somebody helped you to get there. (Yes) It may have been an ordinary person, doing an ordinary job in an extraordinary way. Some few are able to get some education; you didn't get it by yourself. Don't forget those who helped you come over.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-04-09 16:39:21	The only sensible procedure for a critic	W.H. Auden	quotes/the-only-sensible-procedure-for-a-critic.html	art	The only sensible procedure for a critic is to keep silent about works which he believes to be bad, while at the same time vigorously campaigning for those which he believes to be good, especially if they are being neglected or underestimated by the public.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-05-29 15:10:51	Life is more like settling a sequence of villages	David Brooks	quotes/life-is-more-like-settling-a-sequence-of-villages.html	connection	Life is not really an individual journey. Life is more like settling a sequence of villages. You help build a community at home, at work, in your town and then you go off and settle more villages.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:32	Belief in Impossible Things	Tom DeMarco and Timothy Lister	quotes/belief-in-impossible-things.html	critical thinking	There is probably no job on earth for which an ability to believe six impossible things before breakfast is more of a requirement than software project management. We are routinely expected to work ourselves into a state of believing in a deadline, a budget, or a performance factor that time subsequently may prove to be impossible.
Quotes	Quotation	2011-04-22 06:11:48	The cause which is blocking all progress	G. K. Chesterton	quotes/the-cause-which-is-blocking-all-progress.html	love, progress	The cause which is blocking all progress today is the subtle scepticism which whispers in a million ears that things are not good enough to be worth improving. If the world is good we are revolutionaries, if the world is evil we must be conservatives. These essays, futile as they are considered as serious literature, are yet ethically sincere, since they seek to remind men that things must be loved first and improved afterwards. 
Quotes	Quotation	2010-02-27 12:42:19	Relieving Ignorance	Matthew Stewart	quotes/relieving-ignorance.html	education	Customer satisfaction is a good way to sell shoes; but it is a bad way to relieve ignorance. It is fundamentally stupid to base the content of an education on what the as-yet uneducated person decides is best.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	The Art of Progress	Alfred North Whitehead	quotes/the-art-of-progress.html	progress	The art of progress is to preserve order amid change, and to preserve change amid order.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-07-13 08:55:57	The Supreme Goal of All Theory	Albert Einstein	quotes/the-supreme-goal-of-all-theory.html	science	...the supreme goal of all theory is to make the irreducible basic elements as simple and as few as possible without having to surrender the adequate representation of a single datum of experience.
Quotes	Quotation	2014-03-23 15:19:09	The Golden Eternity	Jack Kerouac	quotes/the-golden-eternity.html	wonder	I have lots of things to teach you now, in case we ever meet, concerning the message that was transmitted to me under a pine tree in North Carolina on a cold winter moonlit night. It said that Nothing Ever Happened, so don't worry. It's all like a dream. Everything is ecstasy, inside. We just don't know it because of our thinking-minds. But in our true blissful essence of mind is known that everything is alright forever and forever and forever. Close your eyes, let your hands and nerve-ends drop, stop breathing for 3 seconds, listen to the silence inside the illusion of the world, and you will remember the lesson you forgot, which was taught in immense milky way soft cloud innumerable worlds long ago and not even at all. It is all one vast awakened thing. I call it the golden eternity. It is perfect.
Quotes	Quotation	2014-07-20 07:26:46	The Web of Life	Ted Perry	quotes/the-web-of-life.html	connection	Humankind has not woven the web of life. We are but one thread within it. Whatever we do to the web, we do to ourselves. All things are bound together. All things connect.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-02-21 10:57:26	The US remains astonishingly backward when it comes to education	Anu Partanen	quotes/the-us-remains-astonishingly-backward-when-it-comes-to-education.html	education, equality	It's an unfortunate fact that the United States remains astonishingly backward compared to almost all other advanced Western countries when it comes to education, because in America, what predicts how well a child will do in school is not a child's aptitude or hard work, but the status of the child's parents -- which is to say, their own levels of education and wealth. Other countries suffer from this condition too, but the United States is especially anachronistic. And it's getting worse: The influence of this wealth predictor in the United States today has only been growing stronger in recent years. 
Quotes	Quotation	2016-11-05 10:06:49	No single natural way of life for Sapiens	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/no-single-natural-way-of-life-for-sapiens.html	cultural evolution	The Heated debates about <em>Homo sapiens</em>' 'natural way of life' miss the main point. Ever since the Cognitive Revolution, there hasn't been a single natural way of life for Sapiens. There are only cultural choices, from among a bewildering palette of possibilities. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-10-26 10:36:46	Struggling against irrelevance	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/struggling-against-irrelevance.html	democracy	Brexit and the rise of Trump might therefore demonstrate a trajectory opposite to that of traditional socialist revolutions. The Russian, Chinese and Cuban revolutions were made by people who were vital to the economy but who lacked political power; in 2016, Trump and Brexit were supported by many people who still enjoyed political power but who feared they were losing their economic worth. Perhaps in the twenty-first century populist revolts will be staged not against an economic elite that exploits people but against an economic elite that does not need them anymore. This may well be a losing battle. It is much harder to struggle against irrelevance than against exploitation. 
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Entertain a Thought	Aristotle	quotes/entertain-a-thought.html	critical thinking	It is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain a thought without accepting it.
Quotes	Quotation	2011-04-22 06:14:33	Taking a Fence Down	G. K. Chesterton	quotes/taking-a-fence-down.html	critical thinking, governance, progress	In the matter of reforming things, as distinct from deforming them, there is one plain and simple principle; a principle which will probably be called a paradox. There exists in such a case a certain institution or law; let us say, for the sake of simplicity, a fence or gate erected across a road. The more modern type of reformer goes gaily up to it and says, I don't see the use of this; let us clear it away. To which the more intelligent type of reformer will do well to answer: If you don't see the use of it, I certainly won't let you clear it away. Go away and think. Then, when you can come back and tell me that you do see the use of it, I may allow you to destroy it. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-04-12 15:32:29	An edifice which produces beggars needs restructuring	Martin Luther King Jr.	quotes/an-edifice-which-produces-beggars-needs-restructuring.html	systemic	True compassion is more than flinging a coin to a beggar. It understands that an edifice which produces beggars needs restructuring.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-10-26 20:07:27	A Planet-Sized Problem	E. O. Wilson	quotes/a-planet-sized-problem.html	sustainability	Few will doubt that humankind has created a planet-sized problem for itself. No one wished it so, but we are the first species to become a geophysical force, altering Earth's climate, a role previously reserved for tectonics, sun flares, and glacial cycles. We are also the greatest destroyer of life since the ten-kilometer-wide meteorite that landed near Yucatan and ended the Age of Reptiles sixty-five million years ago. Through overpopulation we have put ourselves in danger of running out of food and water. So a very Faustian choice is upon us: whether to accept our corrosive and risky behavior as the unavoidable price of population and economic growth, or to take stock of ourselves and search for a new environmental ethic. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-22 11:37:59	This strange hankering for play and surprise	Steven Johnson	quotes/this-strange-hankering-for-play-and-surprise.html	wonder	That exploratory, expansive drive is what separates delight from demand: when we are in play mode, we are open to new surprises, while our base appetites focus the mind on the urgent needs of staying alive. Understanding that distinction is critical to understanding why play -- despite its seemingly frivolous veneer -- has led to so many important discoveries and innovations. The question of why the *Home sapiens* brain possesses this strange hankering for play and surprise is a fascinating one....
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-07 11:54:03	While he was focusing on the inner self, his outer world has gone to pot	Clare W. Graves	quotes/while-he-was-focusing-on-the-inner-self-his-outer-world-has-gone-to-pot.html	mission	At the personalistic level (F-S), man becomes centrally concerned with peace with his inner self and in the relation of his self to the inner self of others. He becomes concerned with belonging, with being accepted, with knowing the inner side of self and other selves so harmony can come to be, so people as individuals can be at peace with themselves and thus with the world. And when he achieves this, he finds he must become concerned with more than self or other selves, because while he was focusing on the inner self to the exclusion of the external world, his outer world has gone to pot. So how he turns outward to life and to the whole, the total universe. As he does so he begins to see the problems of restoring the balance of life which has been torn asunder by his individualistically oriented, self-seeking climb up the first ladder of existence.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-15 16:24:42	It's sports and it's all love	Moritz Wagner	quotes/its-sports-and-its-all-love.html	love	At the end of the day, it's sports, and it's all love. I feel for both sides. -- Commenting on stopping on the court after a game to console Devin Davis, an opponent who was sobbing on the court, despondent over missing two crucual free throws. 
Quotes	Quotation	2017-01-13 12:07:08	A Meaningful Life	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/a-meaningful-life.html	mission	As Nietzsche put it, if you have a why to live, you can bear almost any how. A meaningful life can be extremely satisfying even in the midst of hardship, whereas a meaningless life is a terrible ordeal no matter how comfortable it is.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-07-18 08:46:36	Hands that must work	Lauretta Bender	quotes/hands-that-must-work.html	education	We have hands that must work, brains that must think, and personalities that must be developed.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-02-05 09:34:38	The point of modern propaganda	Garry Kasparov	quotes/the-point-of-modern-propaganda.html	critical thinking	The point of modern propaganda isn't only to misinform or push an agenda. It is to exhaust your critical thinking, to annihilate truth.
Quotes	Quotation	2007-11-06 07:00:58	The Four-Fold Way	Angeles Arrien	quotes/the-four-fold-way.html	critical thinking, love	The following four principles, each based on an archetype, comprise what I call the Four-Fold Way: 1. <em>Show up, or choose to be present.</em> Being present allows us to access the human resources of power, presence, and communication. This is the way of the Warrior. 2. <em>Pay attention to what has heart and meaning.</em> Paying attention opens us to the human resources of love, gratitude, acknowledgment, and validation. This is the way of the Healer. 3. <em>Tell the truth without blame or judgment.</em> Nonjudgmental truthfulness maintains our authenticity, and develops our inner vision and intuition. This is the way of the Visionary. 4. <em>Be open to outcome, not attached to outcome.</em> Openness and nonattachment help us to recover the human resources of wisdom and objectivity. This is the way of the Teacher.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-12-05 09:18:13	Wonderment is the first passion of all	René Descartes	quotes/wonderment-is-the-first-passion-of-all.html	wonder	When our first encounter with some object takes us by surprise, and we judge it to be new, or very different from what we have previously experienced or from what we expected it to be, this causes us to wonder at it and be astonished. And because this can happen before we have any knowledge of whether the thing is beneficial to us or not, it seems to me that wonderment is the first passion of all. And it has no contrary, because, if the object that presents itself has nothing in itself to surprise us, we are not moved by it in any way and we consider it without any passion.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-03-10 06:39:13	A mind is blown	Michael Chabon	quotes/a-mind-is-blown.html	wonder	A mind is blown when something you always feared but knew to be impossible turns out to be true; when the world turns out far vaster, far more marvelous or malevolent than you ever dreamed; when you get proof that everything is connected to everything else, that everything you know is wrong, that you are both the center of the universe and a tiny speck sailing off its nethermost edge.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	The Discomfort of Thought	John F. Kennedy	quotes/the-discomfort-of-thought.html	critical thinking, cultural evolution	As every past generation has had to disenthrall itself from an inheritance of truisms and stereotypes, so in our own time we must move on from the reassuring repetition of stale phrases to a new, difficult, but essential confrontation with reality. For the great enemy of truth is very often not the lie -- deliberate, contrived and dishonest -- but the myth -- persistent, persuasive, and unrealistic. Too often we hold fast to the clichés of our forebears. We subject all facts to a prefabricated set of interpretations. We enjoy the comfort of opinion without the discomfort of thought.
Quotes	Quotation	2016-12-03 10:22:36	Authentic cultures	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/authentic-cultures.html	cultural evolution	We still talk a lot about ‘authentic' cultures, but if by ‘authentic' we mean something that developed independently, and that consists of ancient local traditions free of external influences, then there are no authentic cultures left on earth. Over the last few centuries, all cultures were changed almost beyond recognition by a flood of global influences.
Quotes	Quotation	2012-01-19 13:34:08	Introduction of a new order of things	Niccolò Machiavelli	quotes/introduction-of-a-new-order-of-things.html	progress	And it ought to be remembered that there is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct, or more uncertain in its success, than to take the lead in the introduction of a new order of things. Because the innovator has for enemies all those who have done well under the old conditions, and lukewarm defenders in those who may do well under the new. This coolness arises partly from fear of the opponents, who have the laws on their side, and partly from the incredulity of men, who do not readily believe in new things until they have had a long experience of them. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-15 16:24:42	The divine literatus	Walt Whitman	quotes/the-divine-literatus.html	art	View'd, to-day, from a point of view sufficiently over-arching, the problem of humanity all over the civilized world is social and religious, and is to be finally met and treated by literature. The priest departs, the divine literatus comes. Never was anything more wanted than, to-day, and here in the States, the poet of the modern is wanted, or the great literatus of the modern.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-11-06 12:00:55	Fear of Missing Out	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/fear-of-missing-out.html	cultural evolution	Modern humanity is sick with FOMO -- Fear of Missing Out -- and though we have more choice than ever before, we have lost the ability to really pay attention to whatever we choose.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-10-20 13:28:13	Inextricably Linked in Freedom	Wynton Marsalis	quotes/inextricably-linked-in-freedom.html	cultural evolution, liberty	The originators of jazz were only two generations removed from slavery. They were victims of rigorous forms of segregation that routinely and institutionally denied their humanity. So freedom was much more than a word to them. These pioneering musicians were exuberant about exhibiting this newfound personal freedom through their art. But they were also excited about hearing other people do the same thing. They understood that all were inextricably linked in freedom, just as they had been inextricably linked in bondage. And it wasn't theory; it was life as they lived it.
Quotes	Quotation	2016-12-04 10:36:02	Cultures as a kind of mental infection	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/cultures-as-a-kind-of-mental-infection.html	cultural evolution	Ever more scholars see cultures as a kind of mental infection or parasite, with humans as its unwitting host. Organic parasites, such as viruses, live inside the body of their hosts. They multiply and spread from one host to the other, feeding off their hosts, weakening them, and sometimes even killing them. As long as the hosts live long enough to pass along the parasite, it cares little about the condition of its host. In just this fashion, cultural ideas live inside the minds of humans. They multiply and spread from one host to another, occasionally weakening the hosts and sometimes even killing them. A cultural idea -- such as belief in Christian heaven above the clouds or Communist paradise here on earth -- can compel a human to dedicate his or her life to spreading that idea, even at the price of death. The human dies, but the idea spreads. According to this approach, cultures are not conspiracies concocted by some people in order to take advantage of others (as Marxists tend to think). Rather, cultures are mental parasites that emerge accidentally, and thereafter take advantage of all people infected by them.
Quotes	Quotation	2012-04-22 14:57:41	Good Management is Like The Beatles	Steve Jobs	quotes/good-management-is-like-the-beatles.html	connection, equality	My model of management is the Beatles. The reason I say that is because each of the key people in the Beatles kept the others from going off in the directions of their bad tendencies. They sort of kept each other in check. And then when they split up, they never did anything as good. It was the chemistry of a small group of people, and that chemistry was greater than the sum of the parts. 
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Climate Changers	John Guillebaud	quotes/climate-changers.html	sustainability	We urgently need to stabilise and reduce human numbers. There is no way that a population of nine billion -- the UN's medium forecast for 2050 -- can meet its energy needs without unacceptable damage to the planet and a great deal of human misery. We need to think about climate changers -- human beings and their numbers -- as well as climate change. It is the elephant in the room that nobody wants to talk about. Unless we reduce the human population humanely through family planning, nature will do it for us through violence, epidemics or starvation.
Quotes	Quotation	2007-10-08 19:33:03	Chimps and Humans	Carl Sagan and Ann Druyan	quotes/chimps-and-humans.html	humanism, science	On the basis of all the evidence, the closest relative of the human proves to be the chimp. The closest relative of the chimp is the human. Not orangs, but people. Us. Chimps and humans are nearer kin than are chimps and gorillas or any other kinds of ape not of the same species.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:32	Down These Mean Streets	Raymond Chandler	quotes/down-these-mean-streets.html	individuals	Down these mean streets a man must go who is not himself mean, who is neither tarnished nor afraid. If there were enough like him, I think the world would be a very safe place to live in, and yet not too dull to be worth living in.
Quotes	Quotation	2007-02-28 05:24:29	Expectations of holiness	William Blake	quotes/expectations-of-holiness.html	imperfection	It is not because angels are holier than men or devils that makes them angels, but because they do not expect holiness from one another, but from God only.
Quotes	Quotation	2011-04-22 06:12:38	We are in Eden still	G. K. Chesterton	quotes/we-are-in-eden-still.html	humanism, wonder	There runs a strange law through the length of human history -- that men are continually tending to undervalue their environment, to undervalue their happiness, to undervalue themselves. The great sin of mankind, the sin typified by the fall of Adam, is the tendency, not towards pride, but towards this weird and horrible humility. This is the great fall, the fall by which the fish forgets the sea, the ox forgets the meadow, the clerk forgets the city, every man forgets his environment and, in the fullest and most literal sense, forgets himself. This is the real fall of Adam, and it is a spiritual fall. It is a strange thing that many truly spiritual men, such as General Gordon, have actually spent some hours in speculating upon the precise location of the Garden of Eden. Most probably we are in Eden still. It is only our eyes that have changed.
Quotes	Quotation	2016-02-21 07:42:13	People with Passion	Steve Jobs	quotes/people-with-passion.html	individuals, progress	People with passion can change the world for the better. 
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Every Third American	H. L. Mencken	quotes/every-third-american.html	liberty	We are, in fact, a nation of evangelists; every third American devotes himself to improving and lifting up his fellow citizens, usually by force; the messianic delusion is our national disease.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-12-28 11:18:17	Capitalism as a Market Society	Yanis Varoufakis	quotes/capitalism-as-a-market-society.html	critical thinking, equality, society, systemic	Readers may be surprised by the absence of any mention of 'capital' or 'capitalism' in the book. I chose to leave out such words not because there is anything wrong with them but because, loaded as they are with heavy baggage, they get in the way of illuminating the essence of things. So, instead of speaking about capitalism, I use the term 'market society.' Instead of 'capital,' you will find more normal words like 'machinery' and 'produced means of production.' Why use jargon if we can avoid it?
Quotes	Quotation	2017-02-21 11:04:03	You can simply focus on raising a human being	Anu Partanen	quotes/you-can-simply-focus-on-raising-a-human-being.html	education, parenthood	Imagine, then, what it's like to be a Nordic parent. You can simply focus on raising a human being, in an age-appropriate way at every stage, without ever once feeling guilty that you're not saving enough money, or not making enough money, to secure them the college education they'll need to avoid ending up in the gutter. 
Quotes	Quotation	2016-11-14 15:57:21	Deeper convictions of the heart	Leonard Cohen	quotes/deeper-convictions-of-the-heart.html	art	Does he learn anything from writing them [his songs]? Does he work out ideas that way? "I think you work out something. I wouldn't call them ideas. I think ideas are what you want to get rid of. I don't really like songs with ideas. They tend to become slogans. They tend to be on the right side of things: ecology or vegetarianism or antiwar. All these are wonderful ideas but I like to work on a song until those slogans, as wonderful as they are and as wholesome as the ideas they promote are, dissolve into deeper convictions of the heart. I never set out to write a didactic song. It's just my experience. All I've got to put in a song is my own experience."
Quotes	Quotation	2010-08-21 12:50:18	The Loftiest and Purest Art	Walt Whitman	quotes/the-loftiest-and-purest-art.html	art	Talk not so much, then, young artist, of the great old masters, who but painted and chisell'd. Study not only their productions. There is a still higher school for him who would kindle his fire with coal from the altar of the loftiest and purest art. It is the school of all grand actions and grand virtues, of heroism, of the death of patriots and martyrs -- of all the mighty deeds written in the pages of history -- deeds of daring, and enthusiasm, devotion, and fortitude.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-01-21 16:06:48	A working simple system	John Gall	quotes/a-working-simple-system.html	evolution, systemic	A complex system that works is invariably found to have evolved from a simple system that worked. The inverse proposition also appears to be true. A complex system designed from scratch never works and cannot be made to work. You have to start over beginning with a working simple system. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-01-21 15:51:23	Rough consensus and running code	David D. Clark	quotes/rough-consensus-and-running-code.html	practical	We reject: kings, presidents, and voting. We believe in: rough consensus and running code. 
Quotes	Quotation	2014-12-03 18:14:34	Torturing the Data	Darrell Huff	quotes/torturing-the-data.html	critical thinking	If you torture the data long enough, it will confess to anything.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Changing the World	Margaret Mead	quotes/changing-the-world.html	cultural evolution, individuals, progress	Never doubt that a small, group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world. Indeed, it is the only thing that ever has.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-05-21 19:25:38	A Dark Procession	Margery Allingham	quotes/a-dark-procession.html	critical thinking	Mercer did not think at all in the accepted sense of the word. Ideas occurred to him and engendered other ideas. But the process which linked any two of them was a dark procession taking place in some subconscious part of the brain. 
Quotes	Quotation	2017-04-21 08:49:00	You are going to have to make it different	Jacob Bronowski	quotes/you-are-going-to-have-to-make-it-different.html	progress	I once addressed, on a Christmas day many years ago, on behalf of the United Nations, an audience of about two thousand school children in London. As on this occasion, I knew in general what I was going to say, but I did not know exactly what I was going to say, and in a moment of abandon I said to them: 'This is how the world goes, you are going to have to make it different, you are going to have to stop listening to your parents. If you go on obeying your parents, the world will never be a better place.' And at that moment twenty newspaper men representing the European press got up from the front row and rushed for the telephone boxes. And by the time I got home one of the more adventurous correspondents from Geneva had actually phoned my daughter, then aged seven, at school in order to ask her whether she was encouraged to disobey her parents at home.
Quotes	Quotation	2007-09-08 10:00:27	Unintelligible Propositions	Thomas Jefferson	quotes/unintelligible-propositions.html	critical thinking	Ridicule is the only weapon which can be used against unintelligible propositions. Ideas must be distinct before reason can act upon them....
Quotes	Quotation	2008-11-02 06:54:53	Chaos and Mediocrity	Joe Boyd	quotes/chaos-and-mediocrity.html	cultural evolution, society	Is this one legacy of the sixties? That after flinging open the doors to a world previously known only at the margins of society, the pioneers would move on, leaving the masses to add drugs to the myriad forces pulling our society towards chaos and mediocrity?
Quotes	Quotation	2019-01-29 10:35:17	tikkun olam	John Gottman	quotes/tikkun-olam.html	love, mission	In Jewish teachings, 'tikkun olam' refers to any activity that improves the world, bringing it closer to the harmonious state for which it was created. All people, regardless of religious affiliation, are encouraged to contribute to the common good. As a company founded by Jews, this healing (tikkun) of the world (olam) is at the core of the mission of The Gottman Institute. Although we are not a religious organization, for more than 20 years, tikkun olam has propelled us forward with a passion for helping people. It’s more than just our 'why.' It’s a shared sense of responsibility. If we believe we have information that is helpful to others, which we do, then it is our obligation to use this knowledge for good. I didn't always feel this way. As a scientist at the University of Washington, I was making a good living watching couples deteriorate in my research lab. It was my wife, Dr. Julie Schwartz Gottman, a brilliant clinical psychologist, who encouraged me to use my research to help people. It was from a great love that the Gottman Method was born. According to Rabbi Jeremy Schwartz, 'At its most basic level, tikkun olam involves arranging our personal lives as well as our politics, culture, and economy on the basis of love.'
Quotes	Quotation	2016-12-28 11:57:34	When Growth Becomes a Supreme Good	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/when-growth-becomes-a-supreme-good.html	balance, governance	This is the fly in the ointment of free-market capitalism. It cannot ensure that profits are gained in a fair way, or distributed in a fair manner. On the contrary, the craving to increase profits and production blinds people to anything that might stand in the way. When growth becomes a supreme good, unrestricted by any other ethical considerations, it can easily lead to catastrophe.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-01-13 11:50:05	Our Social Order Now in a State of Permanent Flux	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/our-social-order-now-in-a-state-of-permanent-flux.html	cultural evolution	Over the last two centuries, the pace of change became so quick that the social order acquired a dynamic and malleable nature. It now exists in a state of permanent flux.
Quotes	Quotation	2011-03-09 06:38:19	We are Doing our Best	Winston Churchill	quotes/we-are-doing-our-best.html	critical thinking	It's no use saying, 'We are doing our best.' You have got to succeed in doing what is necessary. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-07-20 10:28:19	Writing off half of society as deplorable	Edward Luce	quotes/writing-off-half-of-society-as-deplorable.html	democracy	If we write off half of society as deplorable we forfeit claims on their attention. We also endanger liberal democracy. 
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Ends for which We Live	Martin Luther King Jr.	quotes/ends-for-which-we-live.html	mission	The means by which we live have outdistanced the ends for which we live.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-03-25 06:27:17	Lean	Jim Womack	quotes/lean.html	value creation	Creating ever more value for customers with ever fewer resources is ... all I have ever meant by "lean".
Quotes	Quotation	2007-09-08 10:21:56	The Celestial Teapot	Bertrand Russell	quotes/the-celestial-teapot.html	critical thinking, religion	Many orthodox people speak as though it were the business of skeptics to disprove received dogmas rather than of dogmatics to prove them. This is, of course, a mistake. If I were to suggest that between the Earth and Mars there is a china teapot revolving about the sun in an elliptical orbit, nobody would be able to disprove my assertion provided I were careful to add that the teapot is too small to be revealed even by our most powerful telescopes. But if I were to go on to say that, since my assertion cannot be disproved, it is intolerable presumption on the part of human reason to doubt it, I should rightly be thought to be talking nonsense. If, however, the existence of such a teapot were affirmed in ancient books, taught as the sacred truth every Sunday, and instilled into the minds of children at school, hesitation to believe in its existence would become a mark of eccentricity and entitle the doubter to the attentions of the psychiatrist in an enlightened age or of the Inquisitor in an earlier time.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-10-07 18:07:48	Balance is Required to Maintain Democracy	Wynton Marsalis	quotes/balance-is-required-to-maintain-democracy.html	balance, governance	Our current lack of respect for the swing can be likened to the current state of our democracy. Balance is required to maintain something as delicate as democracy, a subtle understanding of how your power can be magnified through joining with and sharing the power of another person. When that is no longer understood, it becomes a battle to see who is the strongest, who is the loudest, who can get the most attention.
Quotes	Quotation	2012-06-09 10:05:11	The Ultimate Democracy	Paul McCartney	quotes/the-ultimate-democracy.html	democracy, equality	... we were the ultimate democracy. If one of us didn't like a tune, we didn't play it. 
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Thinking's a Dizzy Business	Dashiell Hammett	quotes/thinkings-a-dizzy-business.html	critical thinking	Nobody thinks clearly, no matter what they pretend. Thinking's a dizzy business, a matter of catching as many of those foggy glimpses as you can and fitting them together the best you can. That's why people hang on so tight to their beliefs and opinions; because, compared to the haphazard way in which they're arrived at, even the goofiest opinion seems wonderfully clear, sane and self-evident. And if you let it get away from you, then you've got to dive back into that foggy muddle to wrangle yourself out another to take its place.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-07-05 18:07:08	I Dream Things That Never Were	George Bernard Shaw	quotes/i-dream-things-that-never-were.html	progress	You see things; and you say, 'Why?' But I dream things that never were; and I say, 'Why not?'
Quotes	Quotation	2014-12-06 13:20:17	The Enormous Extension of our Being	C. S. Lewis	quotes/the-enormous-extension-of-our-being.html	written word	Those of us who have been true readers all our life seldom fully realize the enormous extension of our being which we owe to authors. We realize it best when we talk with an unliterary friend. He may be full of goodness and good sense but he inhabits a tiny world. In it, we should be suffocated. The man who is contented to be only himself, and therefore less a self, is in prison. My own eyes are not enough for me, I will see through those of others. Reality, even seen through the eyes of many, is not enough. I will see what others have invented. Even the eyes of all humanity are not enough. I regret that the brutes cannot write books. Very gladly would I learn what face things present to a mouse or a bee; more gladly still would I perceive the olfactory world charged with all the information and emotion it carries for a dog.
Quotes	Quotation	2019-01-29 10:17:11	Learning how to exercise some control over how and what you think	David Foster Wallace	quotes/learning-how-to-exercise-some-control-over-how-and-what-you-think.html	education	As I'm sure you guys know by now, it is extremely difficult to stay alert and attentive, instead of getting hypnotised by the constant monologue inside your own head (may be happening right now). Twenty years after my own graduation, I have come gradually to understand that the liberal arts cliché about teaching you how to think is actually shorthand for a much deeper, more serious idea: learning how to think really means learning how to exercise some control over how and what you think. It means being conscious and aware enough to choose what you pay attention to and to choose how you construct meaning from experience. Because if you cannot exercise this kind of choice in adult life, you will be totally hosed. 
Quotes	Quotation	2008-05-21 19:37:17	The Only Sign of Mental Activity	Margery Allingham	quotes/the-only-sign-of-mental-activity.html	written word	The other pictures varied between the sentimentally lewd and the illustrated Scotch joke variety wherein Glengarried dogs take the place of figures. There were no books and a small writing table with drawers was the only sign of mental activity.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-13 15:36:51	Love is the ultimate and the highest goal	Victor Frankl	quotes/love-is-the-ultimate-and-the-highest-goal.html	love	A thought transfixed me: for the first time in my life I saw the truth as it is set into song by so many poets, proclaimed as the final wisdom by so many thinkers. The truth -- that love is the ultimate and the highest goal to which man can aspire. Then I grasped the meaning of the greatest secret that human poetry and human thought and belief have to impart: The salvation of man is through love and in love. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-07 11:38:52	Man's nature is an open, constantly evolving system	Clare W. Graves	quotes/mans-nature-is-an-open-constantly-evolving-system.html	cultural evolution	The error which most people make when they think about human values is that they assume the nature of man is fixed and there is a single set of human values by which he should live. Such an assumption does not fit with my research. My data indicate that man's nature is an open, constantly evolving system, a system which proceeds by quantum jumps from one steady state system to the next through a hierarchy of ordered systems.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-09 16:46:29	An emotional poverty so bottomless	James Baldwin	quotes/an-emotional-poverty-so-bottomless.html	connection	I have always been struck, in America, by an emotional poverty so bottomless, and a terror of human life, of human touch, so deep that virtually no American appears able to achieve any viable, organic connection between his public stance and his private life.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-03-07 15:13:30	Life is a series of daring adventures from a secure base	David Brooks	quotes/life-is-a-series-of-daring-adventures-from-a-secure-base.html	connection, education, governance, parenthood, value creation	Human development research offers a different formula: All of life is a series of daring adventures from a secure base. If government can create a framework in which people grow up amid healthy families, nurturing schools, thick communities and a secure safety net, then they will have the resources and audacity to thrive in a free global economy and a diversifying skills economy.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-04-20 08:32:06	Moral Sawdust	John Dickson Carr and Cecil Street	quotes/moral-sawdust.html	connection	At some period in this person's growth, certain brain tissues had died and turned to moral sawdust.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-12 14:35:22	People are happy to give away their most valuable asset	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/people-are-happy-to-give-away-their-most-valuable-asset.html	critical thinking	At present, people are happy to give away their most valuable asset -- their personal data -- in exchange for free email services and funny cat videos. It's a bit like African and Native American tribes who unwittingly sold entire countries to European imperialists in exchange for colorful beads and cheap trinkets. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-01-16 08:06:08	To save man from the morass of propaganda	Martin Luther King Jr.	quotes/to-save-man-from-the-morass-of-propaganda.html	education	Education must also train one for quick, resolute and effective thinking. To think incisively and to think for one's self is very difficult. We are prone to let our mental life become invaded by legions of half truths, prejudices, and propaganda. At this point, I often wonder whether or not education is fulfilling its purpose. A great majority of the so-called educated people do not think logically and scientifically. Even the press, the classroom, the platform, and the pulpit in many instances do not give us objective and unbiased truths. To save man from the morass of propaganda, in my opinion, is one of the chief aims of education. Education must enable one to sift and weigh evidence, to discern the true from the false, the real from the unreal, and the facts from the fiction.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-10-20 13:39:30	The Undisputed Sovereignty of the Human Being	Wynton Marsalis	quotes/the-undisputed-sovereignty-of-the-human-being.html	art, humanism, individuals	Jazz insists on the undisputed sovereignty of the human being. In this technological era we can easily be fooled into believing that sophisticated machines are more important than progressive humanity. That's why art is an important barometer of identity. The arts let us know who we are in all of our glory, reveal the best of who we are. All the political and financial might in the world is diminished when put to the service of an impoverished cultural agenda. We see it in our schools, in our homes, and in our world profile: rich and fat, lazy and morally corrupt, with wild, out-of-control young people. We all know that civilization requires a supreme effort. Our technology will become outmoded, but the technology of the human soul does not change.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-01-22 15:22:21	Two ideas of government	William Jennings Bryan	quotes/two-ideas-of-government.html	equality, governance	There are two ideas of government. There are those who believe that you just legislate to make the well-to-do prosperous, that their prosperity will leak through on those below. The Democratic idea has been that if you legislate to make the masses prosperous, their prosperity will find its way up and through every class that rests upon it.
Quotes	Quotation	2016-12-04 10:32:22	Unprecedented growth in human power	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/unprecedented-growth-in-human-power.html	sustainability	The last 500 years have witnessed a phenomenal and unprecedented growth in human power. In the year 1500, there were about 500 million Homo sapiens in the entire world. Today, there are 7 billion. The total value of goods and services produced by humankind in the year 1500 is estimated at $250 billion, in today's dollars. Nowadays the value of a year of human production is close to $60 trillion. In 1500, humanity consumed about 13 trillion calories of energy per day. Today, we consume 1,500 trillion calories a day. (Take a second look at those figures -- human population has increased fourteen-fold, production 240-fold, and energy consumption 115-fold.)
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Cost of Education	Derek Bok	quotes/cost-of-education.html	critical thinking, education	If you think education is expensive, try ignorance.
Quotes	Quotation	2012-07-29 10:36:54	The Divine Gift of Purely Nonsensical Speech and Action	Edmund Crispin	quotes/the-divine-gift-of-purely-nonsensical-speech-and-action.html	art, diversity	Fen sighed. "We are all becoming standardized and normal, Nigel. The divine gift of purely nonsensical speech and action is in atrophy. Would you believe it, a pupil of mine had the impertinence the other day to tick me off for reading him passages regarding the Fimble Fowl and the Quangle-Wangle as an illustration of pure poetic inventiveness; I put him in his place all right." In the semi-darkness his eye became momentarily lambent with remembered satisfaction. "But there's no eccentricity nowadays -- none at all."
Quotes	Quotation	2008-07-13 08:59:35	To Give in the Same Measure	Albert Einstein	quotes/to-give-in-the-same-measure.html	connection, mission	How strange is the lot of us mortals! Each of us is here for a brief sojourn; for what purpose he knows not, though he sometimes thinks he senses it. But without deeper reflection one knows from daily life that one exists for other people -- first of all for those upon whose smiles and well-being our own happiness is wholly dependent, and then for the many, unknown to us, to whose destinies we are bound by the ties of sympathy. A hundred times every day I remind myself that my inner and outer life are based on the labors of other men, living and dead, and that I must exert myself in order to give in the same measure as I have received and am still receiving....
Quotes	Quotation	2018-08-03 11:27:37	Conscious Improvement for the Masses	Edward Luce	quotes/conscious-improvement-for-the-masses.html	education, equality	In the newly created Germany, Otto von Bismarck set up the world's first social insurance system for the working classes in the late nineteenth century. Britian followed suit under Lloyd George in the early twentieth century. America distributed small parcels of freeholdings to first-comers in the feverish westwards push that came after the Civil War. Had America instead chosen to auction the undivided land to the highest bidders, the US would now have a Latin America-style *hacienda* economy. The railroad barons would have gobbled up most of the land and converted it into vast estates. America also made public land grants to set up new universities across its rapidly opening landscape. Each of the big Western countries consciously opted to spread skills and assets to its poor. For the first time in history, governments exended public education, moving the school leaving age upwards as the factory clock supplanted the farm day as the timekeeper of the new age. The gilded age was an era of spectacular new wealth. It was also a time of conscious improvement for the masses. They were no longer unlettered. As China and India are discovering, the rise of mass literacy changes everything. Though the Towntrees and the Carnegies became richer than God, their workers could read and write. 
Quotes	Quotation	2007-02-16 06:17:11	A foolish consistency	Ralph Waldo Emerson	quotes/a-foolish-consistency.html	balance	A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds, adored by little statesmen and philosophers and divines.
Quotes	Quotation	2007-04-10 14:59:19	Only Connect	E. M. Forster	quotes/only-connect.html	connection, integral, love	Only connect! That was the whole of her sermon. Only connect the prose and the passion and both will be exalted, and human love will be seen at its height. Live in fragments no longer.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-07-09 11:59:12	Technological Unemployment	John Maynard Keynes	quotes/technological-unemployment.html	value creation	We are being afflicted with a new disease of which some readers may not yet have heard the name, but of which they will hear a great deal in the years to come -- namely, technological unemployment. This means unemployment due to our discovery of means of economising the use of labour outrunning the pace at which we can find new uses for labour.
Quotes	Quotation	2016-11-10 11:22:13	Evolutionary success and individual suffering	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/evolutionary-success-and-individual-suffering.html	cultural evolution	This discrepancy between evolutionary success and individual suffering is perhaps the most important lesson we can draw from the Agricultural Revolution. When we study the narrative of plants such as wheat and maize, maybe the purely evolutionary perspective makes sense. Yet in the case of animals such as cattle, sheep and Sapiens, each with a complex world of sensations and emotions, we have to consider how evolutionary success translates into individual experience. In the following chapters we will see time and again how a dramatic increase in the collective power and ostensible success of our species went hand in hand with much individual suffering. 
Quotes	Quotation	2012-01-09 04:57:15	The time-worn yoke of their opinions	Ralph Waldo Emerson	quotes/the-time-worn-yoke-of-their-opinions.html	cultural evolution, progress	He who should inspire and lead his race must be defended from travelling with the souls of other men, from living, breathing, reading, and writing in the daily, time-worn yoke of their opinions.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-08-18 07:07:39	Every Body cries, a Union is absolutely necessary	Benjamin Franklin	quotes/every-body-cries-a-union-is-absolutely-necessary.html	governance	Every Body cries, a Union is absolutely necessary, but when they come to the Manner and Form of the Union, their weak Noddles are perfectly distracted.
Quotes	Quotation	2007-02-28 05:22:20	Minute Particulars	William Blake	quotes/minute-particulars.html	practical	He who would do good to another must do it in Minute Particulars: general Good is the plea of the scoundrel, hypocrite, and flatterer, for Art and Science cannot exist but in minutely organized Particulars.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Men Fear Thought	Bertrand Russell	quotes/men-fear-thought.html	critical thinking, liberty	Men fear thought as they fear nothing else on earth -- more than ruin -- more even than death.... Thought is subversive and revolutionary, destructive and terrible, thought is merciless to privilege, established institutions, and comfortable habit. Thought looks into the pit of hell and is not afraid. Thought is great and swift and free, the light of the world, and the chief glory of man.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-08-13 18:22:37	This Highest Kind of Religious Feeling	Albert Einstein	quotes/this-highest-kind-of-religious-feeling.html	cultural evolution, religion, wonder	The beginnings of cosmic religious feeling already appear at an early stage of development, e.g., in many of the Psalms of David and in some of the Prophets. Buddhism, as we have learned especially from the wonderful writings of Schopenhauer, contains a much stronger element of this. The religious geniuses of all ages have been distinguished by this kind of religious feeling, which knows no dogma and no God conceived in man's image; so that there can be no church whose central teachings are based on it. Hence it is precisely among the heretics of every age that we find men who were filled with this highest kind of religious feeling and were in many cases regarded by their contemporaries as atheists, sometimes also as saints.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-10-15 07:14:00	Flexible cooperation with strangers	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/flexible-cooperation-with-strangers.html	society	To the best of our knowledge, only Sapiens can cooperate in very flexible ways with countless numbers of strangers. This concrete capability -- rather than an eternal soul or some unique kind of consciousness -- explains our mastery of planet Earth. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-09-14 10:03:59	Confusion leads to understanding	Vishavjit Singh	quotes/confusion-leads-to-understanding.html	critical thinking	I’m trying to confuse peoples’ initial perceptions. Confusion leads to exploration, exploration to learning, and learning to understanding.
Quotes	Quotation	2007-03-20 16:49:17	Art and Spirit	Ken Wilber	quotes/art-and-spirit.html	art, wonder	And whatever we mean by the word 'spirit' -- let us just say, with Tillich, that it involves for each of us our ultimate concern -- it is in that simple awestruck moment when great art enters you and changes you, that spirit shines in this world just a little more brightly than it did the moment before.
Quotes	Quotation	2015-07-03 13:47:05	The Extent of Freedom in All of its Dimensions	Anthony M. Kennedy	quotes/the-extent-of-freedom-in-all-of-its-dimensions.html	cultural evolution, liberty	The nature of injustice is that we may not always see it in our own times.The generations that wrote and ratified the Bill of Rights and the Fourteenth Amendment did not presume to know the extent of freedom in all of its dimensions, and so they entrusted to future generations a charter protecting the right of all persons to enjoy liberty as we learn its meaning.
Quotes	Quotation	2015-10-16 04:39:08	Life can be much broader	Steve Jobs	quotes/life-can-be-much-broader.html	individuals, progress	When you grow up you tend to get told that the world is the way it is and your life is just to live your life inside the world. Try not to bash into the walls too much. Try to have a nice family, have fun, save a little money. That's a very limited life. Life can be much broader once you discover one simple fact: Everything around you that you call life was made up by people that were no smarter than you and you can change it, you can influence it, you can build your own things that other people can use.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-07-09 11:46:07	The legitimate object of government	Abraham Lincoln	quotes/the-legitimate-object-of-government.html	governance, society	The legitimate object of government, is to do for a community of people, whatever they need to have done, but can not do, at all, or can not, so well do, for themselves -- in their separate, and individual capacities. In all that the people can individually do as well for themselves, government ought not to interfere. The desirable things which the individuals of a people can not do, or can not well do, for themselves, fall into two classes: those which have relation to wrongs, and those which have not. Each of these branch off into an infinite variety of subdivisions. The first -- that in relation to wrongs -- embraces all crimes, misdemeanors, and nonperformance of contracts. The other embraces all which, in its nature, and without wrong, requires combined action, as public roads and highways, public schools, charities, pauperism, orphanage, estates of the deceased, and the machinery of government itself. From this it appears that if all men were just, there still would be some, though not so much, need for government.
Quotes	Quotation	2012-01-09 17:37:44	A Coke is a Coke	Andy Warhol	quotes/a-coke-is-a-coke.html	equality	What's great about this country is that America started the tradition where the richest consumers buy essentially the same things as the poorest. You can be watching TV and see Coca-Cola, and you know that the President drinks Coke, Liz Taylor drinks Coke, and just think, you can drink Coke, too. A Coke is a Coke and no amount of money can get you a better Coke than the one the bum on the corner is drinking. All the Cokes are the same and all the Cokes are good. Liz Taylor knows it, the President knows it, the bum knows it, and you know it.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-11-20 12:35:29	The Tautness of this Resonant Connection	Herb Bowie	quotes/the-tautness-of-this-resonant-connection.html	art	No matter what the form, all art seems to produce a similar sensation -- of timelessness, of implicit order, of connectedness. It is as if the work of art had sounded some deep note, and caused sympathetic vibration in a hidden string, a string whose one end is secured in the human heart, and from there ascends towards some unknowable summit, the existence of the termination point affirmed only by the tautness of this resonant connection.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-06-21 11:09:05	All must be held valuable, or none	Edmund Crispin	quotes/all-must-be-held-valuable-or-none.html	equality, humanism	But none of us has the right to assess the value of a human existence. All must be held valuable, or none. The death of Christ and the death of Socrates, Fen added dryly, "suggest that our judgments are scarcely infallible... And the evil of Nazism lay precisely in this, that a group of men began to differentiate between the value of their fellow-beings, and to act on their conclusions. It isn't a habit which I, for one, would like to encourage."
Quotes	Quotation	2013-04-01 04:52:55	Monkeys with money and guns	Tom Waits	quotes/monkeys-with-money-and-guns.html	humanism	We are buried beneath the weight of information, which is being confused with knowledge; quantity is being confused with abundance and wealth with happiness. We are monkeys with money and guns. 
Quotes	Quotation	2010-07-12 15:03:19	Notions to Explain Nature	Baruch Spinoza	quotes/notions-to-explain-nature.html	science	We see therefore that all the notions whereby the common people are wont to explain Nature are merely modes of imagining and denote not the nature of anything but only the constitution of the imagination.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-07-05 14:58:16	Most advertising an insane irrelevance	Raymond Williams	quotes/most-advertising-an-insane-irrelevance.html	critical thinking	It is often said that our society is too materialist, and that advertising reflects this.... But it seems to me that in this respect our society is quite evidently not materialist enough, and that this, paradoxically, is the result of a failure in social meaning, values and ideals.... If we were sensibly materialist, in that part of our living in which we use things, we should find most advertising to be of an insane irrelevance. Beer would be enough for us, without the additional promise that in drinking it we show ourselves to be manly, young in heart, or neighborly. A washing-machine would be a useful machine to wash clothes, rather than an indication that we are forward-looking or an object of envy to our neighbors. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-10-26 10:24:46	The better angels of our nature	Abraham Lincoln	quotes/the-better-angels-of-our-nature.html	connection	We are not enemies, but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion may have strained, it must not break our bonds of affection. The mystic chords of memory, stretching from every battlefield and patriot grave to every living heart and hearthstone all over this broad land, will yet swell the chorus of the Union when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-06-08 20:05:24	A First-Rate Intelligence	F. Scott Fitzgerald	quotes/a-first-rate-intelligence.html	critical thinking	The test of a first-rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in mind at the same time and still retain the ability to function. One should, for example, be able to see that things are hopeless yet be determined to make them otherwise.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-04-16 22:12:13	Hard Discipline of Reasonableness and Honesty	Gilbert Murray	quotes/hard-discipline-of-reasonableness-and-honesty.html	critical thinking	The great thing to remember is that the mind of man cannot be enlightened permanently by merely teaching him to reject some particular set of superstitions. There is an infinite supply of other superstitions always at hand; and the mind that desires such things, that is, the mind that has not trained itself to the hard discipline of reasonableness and honesty, will, as soon as its devils are cast out, proceed to fill itself with their relations.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-06-29 08:21:25	No person in America should be too poor to live	Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez	quotes/no-person-in-america-should-be-too-poor-to-live.html	equality	For me, democratic socialism is about -- really, the value for me is that I believe that in a modern, moral and wealthy society, no person in America should be too poor to live.
Quotes	Quotation	2011-08-01 12:36:08	We don't even own suits	Apple	quotes/we-dont-even-own-suits.html	critical thinking, diversity, liberty, systemic	When an AT&amp;T rep suggested Jobs wear a suit to meet with AT&amp;T's CEO, the deputy replied, "We're Apple. We don't wear suits. We don't even own suits."
Quotes	Quotation	2019-01-03 08:24:58	The exercise of the intellect	Alexis de Tocqueville	quotes/the-exercise-of-the-intellect.html	science	From the time when the exercise of the intellect became a source of strength and of wealth, we see that every addition to science, every fresh truth and every new idea became a germ of power placed within the reach of the people.
Quotes	Quotation	2016-11-28 08:33:21	Consistency is the playground of dull minds	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/consistency-is-the-playground-of-dull-minds.html	balance	Just as medieval culture did not manage to square chivalry with Christianity, so the modern world fails to square liberty with equality. But this is no defect. Such contradictions are an inseparable part of every human culture. In fact, they are culture's engines, responsible for the creativity and dynamism of our species. Just as when two clashing musical notes played together force a piece of music forward, so discord in our thoughts, ideas and values compel us to think, re-evaluate and criticise. Consistency is the playground of dull minds.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-06-07 08:18:25	Push Outward	Michel Foucault	quotes/push-outward.html	cultural evolution	Search for what is good and strong and beautiful in your society and elaborate from there. Push outward. Always create from what you already have. Then you will know what to do.
Quotes	Quotation	2014-06-13 04:28:19	We Need a Place to Stand	John Bacon and Ed Zeiders	quotes/we-need-a-place-to-stand.html	society, written word	Researching my latest book, Fourth and Long, I met Dr. Ed Zeiders, the pastor of St. Paul's United Methodist Church in State College. He has seen what a college football team can do for a community in ways others might not. 'We are desperately needy,' he told me. 'We need a place to stand, and a people to stand with, and a cause to stand for. That is not original with me. That came out of World Methodism. And those three propositions hold the key to healthy and value-oriented living. Our culture is devoid of these things.'
Quotes	Quotation	2018-10-26 10:28:03	Economic growth will not save the global ecosystem	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/economic-growth-will-not-save-the-global-ecosystem.html	sustainability	Liberalism traditionally relied on economic growth to magically solve difficult social and political conflicts. Liberalism reconciled the proletariat with the bourgeoisie, the faithful with atheists, natives with immigrants, and Europeans with Asians by promising everybody a larger slice of the pie. With a constantly growing pie, that was possible. However, economic growth will not save the global ecosystem; just the opposite, in fact, for economic growth is the cause of the ecological crisis. And economic growth will not solve technological disruption, for it is predicated on the invention of more and more disruptive technologies. 
Quotes	Quotation	2015-12-31 10:56:51	Any Love for Justice	James Baldwin	quotes/any-love-for-justice.html	equality, rule of law	Well, if one really wishes to know how justice is administered in a country, one does not question the policemen, the lawyers, the judges, or the protected members of the middle class. One goes to the unprotected -- those, precisely, who need the law's protection most! -- and listens to their testimony. Ask any Mexican, any Puerto Rican, any black man, any poor person -- ask the wretched how they fare in the halls of justice, and then you will know, not whether or not the country is just, but whether or not it has any love for justice, or any concept of it. It is certain, in any case, that ignorance, allied with power, is the most ferocious enemy justice can have.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-15 16:24:42	Public Truth	Robert B. Reich	quotes/public-truth.html	critical thinking	Reviving the common good also depends on each of us taking responsibility for finding, sharing, and insisting upon public truth. By public truth I mean facts about what is happening around us that could affect our well-being, as well as clear logic about the significance of those facts and reasoned analysis about their practical consequences. 
Quotes	Quotation	2008-10-16 20:49:39	Model II Values	Chris Argyris and Donald Schön	quotes/model-ii-values.html	critical thinking, liberty, society	Clearly, Model II touches on values that are central to social life and to the traditions of moral philosophy: freedom of choice, truth and testability, the nature of commitment, the possibilities for and limitations on openness in communication among individuals, the basis for trust and cooperation among human beings, the sources of long-term personal effectiveness.
Quotes	Quotation	2012-03-23 06:15:29	Equals	John Lennon	quotes/equals.html	equality	Was it better to have a guy who was better than the people I had in? To make the group stronger, or to let me be stronger? Instead of going for an individual thing we went for the strongest format — equals.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Unarmed Truth and Unconditional Love	Martin Luther King Jr.	quotes/unarmed-truth-and-unconditional-love.html	love, written word	I believe that unarmed truth and unconditional love will have the final word in reality. That is why right, temporarily defeated, is stronger than evil triumphant.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-08-13 18:30:01	Moral Religion	Albert Einstein	quotes/moral-religion.html	cultural evolution, religion, rule of law	The Jewish scriptures admirably illustrate the development from the religion of fear to moral religion, a development continued in the New Testament. The religions of all civilized peoples, especially the peoples of the Orient, are primarily moral religions. The development from a religion of fear to moral religion is a great step in peoples' lives. And yet, that primitive religions are based entirely on fear and the religions of civilized peoples purely on morality is a prejudice against which we must be on our guard. The truth is that all religions are a varying blend of both types, with this differentiation: that on the higher levels of social life the religion of morality predominates.
Quotes	Quotation	2016-09-17 09:01:00	Having Fewer Children and Grandchildren	Herb Bowie	quotes/having-fewer-children-and-grandchildren.html	sustainability	On the subject of climate change, I think we need to not only think of what sort of planet we will be leaving to our children and grandchildren, but start to think about leaving fewer children and grandchildren for our planet to have to sustain. We cannot stop and reverse climate change if the human population of the planet continues to climb; in fact, it is exceedingly improbably that we can save our planet while maintaining the same number of people we have alive today. 
Quotes	Quotation	2016-12-28 12:01:59	Trust in the Future	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/trust-in-the-future.html	governance	But in its extreme form, belief in the free market is as naïve as belief in Santa Claus. There simply is no such thing as a market free of all political bias. The most important economic resource is trust in the future, and this resource is constantly threatened by thieves and charlatans. Markets by themselves offer no protection against fraud, theft and violence. It is the job of political systems to ensure trust by legislating sanctions against cheats and to establish and support police forces, courts and jails which will enforce the law. When kings fail to do their jobs and regulate the markets properly, it leads to loss of trust, dwindling credit and economic depression.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-04-12 15:28:50	When machines are considered more important than people	Martin Luther King Jr.	quotes/when-machines-are-considered-more-important-than-people.html	humanism	When machines and computers, profit motives and property rights are considered more important than people, the giant triplets of racism, economic exploitation, and militarism are incapable of being conquered. A civilization can flounder as readily in the face of moral bankruptcy as it can through financial bankruptcy.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-12-14 12:55:59	Television mesmerizes people	Eric Braverman	quotes/television-mesmerizes-people.html	written word	The boob tube turns you into a boob,. Television mesmerizes people and turns them into intellectual spectators. It feeds passivity and makes you less engaged.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-04-24 08:38:11	Worshipping the divine right of capital	Tim O'Reilly	quotes/worshipping-the-divine-right-of-capital.html	value creation	Future economic historians may look back wryly at this period when we worshipped the divine right of capital while looking down on our ancestors who believed in the divine right of kings. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-08-03 11:04:15	A hereditary meritocracy	Edward Luce	quotes/a-hereditary-meritocracy.html	equality	The golden decades of the post-war era bore out the theory of declining inequality. But over the last thirty years that has gone into reverse. During those decades, the share of the US economic pie divided between labour and capital was roughly 70:30. Capital's share -- the flows taken up by returns on financial assets rather than wages and salaries -- has since risen to a level not seen since the days of *The Great Gatsby*. The gap between the pay of the average chief executive and their employees has risen tenfold since the lat 1970s to around four hundred. Europe has seen varying rates of rising inequality, with Britain and Spain recording the fastest-rising Gini coefficient -- the measure of inequality -- and Germany and Scandinavia the least. But all have been moving in the same way. In contrast to the industrial era, however, today's inequality is accompanied by vanishing mobility. It is not just that people are staying physically put. They are also likelier to stay trapped in the same income group. America, in particular, which had traditionally shown the highest class mobility of any Western country, now has the lowest. Today it is rarer for a poor American to become rich than a poor Briton, which means the American dream is less likely to be realized in America. The meritocratic society has given way to a hereditary meritocracy. The children of the rich are overwhelmingly likely to stay rich. 
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Ten thousand fools proclaim themselves	Martin Luther King Jr.	quotes/ten-thousand-fools-proclaim-themselves.html	individuals, progress	Ten thousand fools proclaim themselves into obscurity, while one wise man forgets himself into immortality.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-12 14:42:14	Regulating the ownership of data	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/regulating-the-ownership-of-data.html	rule of law	So we had better call upon our lawyers, politicians, philosophers, and even poets to turn their attention to this conundrum: how do you regulate the ownership of data? This may well be the most important political question of our era. If we cannot answer this question soon, our sociopolitical system might collapse.
Quotes	Quotation	2012-03-10 11:02:20	The Left Hand Dimension	Ken Wilber	quotes/the-left-hand-dimension.html	integral	But the main point is that this Left Hand dimension refers to the inside, to the <em>interior depth</em> that is <em>consciousness</em> itself. Q: You said earlier that depth is consciousness, or what depth looked like from within. KW: Yes, exactly. The Left Hand is what the holon looks like from within; the Right Hand is what the same holon looks like from without. Interior and exterior. Consciousness and form. Subjective and objective. 
Quotes	Quotation	2012-06-10 06:47:13	Liberalism is not Socialism	Winston Churchill	quotes/liberalism-is-not-socialism.html	equality, governance, value creation	Liberalism is not Socialism, and never will be. There is a great gulf fixed. It is not a gulf of method, it is a gulf of principle. … Socialism seeks to pull down wealth. Liberalism seeks to raise up poverty. Socialism would destroy private interests; Liberalism would preserve private interests in the only way in which they can be safely and justly preserved, namely by reconciling them with public right. Socialism would kill enterprise; Liberalism would rescue enterprise from the trammels of privilege and preference … Socialism exalts the rule; Liberalism exalts the man. Socialism attacks capital; Liberalism attacks monopoly.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-10-26 10:48:17	The historical trajectory of violence	Steven Pinker	quotes/the-historical-trajectory-of-violence.html	cultural evolution	The historical trajectory of violence affects not only how life is lived but how it is understood. What could be more fundamental to our sense of meaning and purpose than a conception of whether the strivings of the human race over long stretches of time have left us better or worse off? How, in particular, are we to make sense of *modernity* -- of the eroosion of family, tribe, tradition, and religion by the forces of individualism, cosmopolitanism, reason and science? So much depends on how we understand the legacy of this transition: whether we see our world as a nightmare of crime, terrorism, genocide, and war, or as a period that, by the standards of history, is blessed by unprecedented levels of peaceful coexistence. 
Quotes	Quotation	2008-10-18 11:12:38	Model II Decision-Making	Chris Argyris and Donald Schön	quotes/model-ii-decision-making.html	critical thinking, diversity, liberty, society	Model II encourages the individual to maximize his uniqueness. If, in doing so, he should arrive at goals that differ from those developed by others, he will have done so under conditions of openness, trust and risk-taking. The individual would therefore feel free to discuss his differences openly with the group. Moreover, if the individual is in a subordinate power position, and if he feels he had adequate opportunity to dissuade the group and that the group publicly confronted and tested all differences, then the individual will probably be motivated to work toward the group goal but still be motivated to generate new information that may change the group's decision. This means that one can be externally committed to a decision and internally committed to the decision-making processes that produced the decision yet simultaneously monitor the consequences of the decision thoroughly to seek new, valid information to reconfront the decision without being considered disloyal. In the model-II world, conflicts do not disappear--indeed, the illusion of conflict disappearing is more typical of the model-I world, in which conflicts are settled by power plays based on sanctions, charisma or loyalty.
Quotes	Quotation	2012-11-06 04:07:51	The Mysterious	Albert Einstein	quotes/the-mysterious.html	art, religion, science, wonder	The most beautiful experience we can have is the mysterious. It is the fundamental emotion that stands at the cradle of true art and true science. Whoever does not know it and can no longer wonder, no longer marvel, is as good as dead, and his eyes are dimmed. It was the experience of mystery -- even if mixed with fear -- that engendered religion. A knowledge of the existence of something we cannot penetrate, our perceptions of the profoundest reason and the most radiant beauty, which only in their most primitive forms are accessible to our minds: it is this knowledge and this emotion that constitute true religiosity. In this sense, and only this sense, I am a deeply religious man.
Quotes	Quotation	2011-06-21 18:13:17	The Credibility of a Comedian	Jon Stewart	quotes/the-credibility-of-a-comedian.html	democracy	The embarrassment is that I'm given credibility in this world because of the disappointment that the public has in what the news media does. 
Quotes	Quotation	2016-11-28 08:38:44	Human imagination more than biological reality	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/human-imagination-more-than-biological-reality.html	cultural evolution	There is little sense, then, in arguing that the natural function of women is to give birth, or that homosexuality is unnatural. Most of the laws, norms, rights and obligations that define manhood and womanhood reflect human imagination more than biological reality.
Quotes	Quotation	2014-09-27 07:12:08	The original naiveté	Henri Matisse	quotes/the-original-naivet.html	art, love, wonder	You study, you learn, but you guard the original naiveté. It has to be within you, as desire for drink is within the drunkard or love is within the lover. 
Quotes	Quotation	2016-11-12 13:22:46	These principles have no objective validity	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/these-principles-have-no-objective-validity.html	cultural evolution	The two texts present us with an obvious dilemma. Both the Code of Hammurabi and the American Declaration of Independence claim to outline universal and eternal principles of justice, but according to the Americans all people are equal, whereas according to the Babylonians people are decidedly unequal. The Americans would, of course, say that they are right, and that Hammurabi is wrong. Hammurabi, naturally, would retort that he is right, and that the Americans are wrong. In fact, they are both Wrong. Hammurabi and the American Founding Fathers alike imagined a reality governed by universal and immutable principles of justice, such as equality or hierarchy. Yet the only place where such universal principles exist is in the fertile imagination of Sapiens, and in the myths they invent and tell one another. These principles have no objective validity.
Quotes	Quotation	2015-12-01 05:36:20	Ignorant and Free	Thomas Jefferson	quotes/ignorant-and-free.html	education, governance, liberty, written word	If a nation expects to be ignorant and free, in a state of civilization, it expects what never was and never will be. The functionaries of every government have propensities to command at will the liberty and property of their constituents. There is no safe deposit for these but with the people themselves; nor can they be safe with them without information. Where the press is free, and every man able to read, all is safe.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-02-21 11:18:01	Accidents of birth	Anu Partanen	quotes/accidents-of-birth.html	equality	Today Americans still feel that by and large, every individual is responsible for constructing his or her own fate -- the classic pursuit of happiness -- and there is still much debate in the United States about the extent to which, if at all, an individual's success or failure is also shaped by accidents of birth. Nordic people have long ago moved beyond this debate. To most Nordics it's completely obvious that an accident of birth, like being born into poverty or a neighborhood without a good school, can severely disadvantage an individual and destroy any chances of success, no matter what he or she does. 
Quotes	Quotation	2011-09-18 20:53:57	Fuzzy Concept	Ansel Adams	quotes/fuzzy-concept.html	critical thinking	There is nothing worse than a brilliant image of a fuzzy concept.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-12-19 16:27:23	Cockpits with Instruments Controlled by Gremlins	Robert D. Austin	quotes/cockpits-with-instruments-controlled-by-gremlins.html	humanism, liberty, stories	One frequent analogy casts the manager in the role of an airplane pilot guided by organizational measures that are like cockpit instruments. Mechanistic and organic analogies are flawed because they are too simplistic. Kaplan and Norton's cockpit analogy would be more accurate if it included a multitude of tiny gremlins controlling wing flaps, fuel flow, and so on of a plane being buffeted by winds and generally struggling against nature, but with the gremlins always controlling information flow back to the cockpit instruments, for fear that the pilot might find gremlin replacements. It would not be surprising if airplanes guided this way occasionally flew into mountainsides when they seemed to be progressing smoothly toward their destinations.
Quotes	Quotation	2013-03-01 04:39:35	More Popular than Jesus	John Lennon	quotes/more-popular-than-jesus.html	stories	Christianity will go. It will vanish and shrink. I needn't argue about that; I'm right and I'll be proved right. We're more popular than Jesus now; I don't know which will go first—rock 'n' roll or Christianity. Jesus was all right but his disciples were thick and ordinary. It's them twisting it that ruins it for me.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Conventional Views	John Kenneth Galbraith	quotes/conventional-views.html	critical thinking	The conventional view serves to protect us from the painful job of thinking.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-12-04 12:15:43	It's the rich class that's winning	Warren Buffett	quotes/its-the-rich-class-thats-winning.html	society, value creation	There's class warfare, all right, but it's my class, the rich class, that's making war, and we're winning. 
Quotes	Quotation	2014-01-08 17:42:02	Prime training for permanent underclasses	John Taylor Gatto	quotes/prime-training-for-permanent-underclasses.html	education	Look again at [what I consider to be] the seven lessons of school teaching: confusion, class position, indifference, emotional and intellectual dependency, conditional self-esteem, and surveillance. All of these lessons are prime training for permanent underclasses, people deprived forever of finding the center of their own special genius. 
Quotes	Quotation	2007-09-08 10:13:31	Evolutionary Drive Towards Complexity	Richard Dawkins	quotes/evolutionary-drive-towards-complexity.html	evolution	The evolutionary drive towards complexity comes, in those lineages where it comes at all, not from any inherent propensity for increased complexity, and not from biased mutation. It comes from natural selection: the process which, as far as we know, is the only process ultimately capable of generating complexity out of simplicity.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-11-02 08:45:15	Counter-Culture's own values and aesthetics decayed	Joe Boyd	quotes/counter-cultures-own-values-and-aesthetics-decayed.html	cultural evolution	Beneath the surface, the progressive sixties hid all manner of unpleasantness: sexism, reaction, racism and factionalism. It wasn't surprising, really. The idea that drugs, sex and music could transform the world was always a pretty naïve dream. As the counter-culture's effect on the mainstream grew, its own values and aesthetics decayed. The political setbacks of the coming years grabbed the headlines while the dilution of ideals happened more quietly, but nonetheless vividly for those who noticed.
Quotes	Quotation	2012-08-03 22:49:09	First they came...	Martin Niemöller	quotes/first-they-came....html	connection, diversity, equality	First they came for the communists, and I didn't speak out because I wasn't a communist. Then they came for the trade unionists, and I didn't speak out because I wasn't a trade unionist. Then they came for the Jews, and I didn't speak out because I wasn't a Jew. Then they came for me and there was no one left to speak out for me.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-04-16 11:14:20	In the thrall of a vast, world-spanning machine	Tim O'Reilly	quotes/in-the-thrall-of-a-vast-world-spanning-machine.html	systemic	We are already in the thrall of a vast, world-spanning machine that, due to errors in its foundational programming, has developed a disdain for human beings, is working to make them irrelevant, and resists all attempts to bring it back under control. It is not yet intelligent or autonomous, and it still depends on its partnership with humans, but it grows more powerful and more independent every day. We are engaged in a battle for the soul of this machine, and we are losing. 
Quotes	Quotation	2010-02-23 18:57:08	Where the Puck is Going to Be	Steve Jobs	quotes/where-the-puck-is-going-to-be.html	critical thinking, progress	There's an old Wayne Gretzky quote that I love. 'I skate to where the puck is going to be, not where it has been.' And we've always tried to do that at Apple. Since the very very beginning. And we always will.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-12 13:09:59	Selling sugared water	Steve Jobs	quotes/selling-sugared-water.html	mission	Do you want to spend the rest of your life selling sugared water, or do you want a chance to change the world?
Quotes	Quotation	2018-04-11 12:20:50	the biological evolution of Homo sapiens was usurped by socio-cultural evolution	Jürgen Klüver	quotes/the-biological-evolution-of-homo-sapiens-was-usurped-by-socio-cultural-evolution.html	cultural evolution	Many biologists and social scientists have noted that with the development of human culture, the biological evolution of Homo sapiens was usurped by socio-cultural evolution. The construction of artificial environments and social structures created new criteria for selection, and biological fitness was replaced by 'cultural fitness', which is often different for different cultures and is generally not measured by the number of offspring. Moreover, the mechanism of socio-cultural evolution is different from the model of biological evolution that was proposed by Charles Darwin (1809–1882), and refined by many others. In essence, socio-cultural evolution is 'Lamarckian' in nature -- it is an example of acquired inheritance, as described by the French naturalist Jean-Baptiste Lamarck (1744–1829) -- because humans are able to pass on cultural achievements to the next generation.
Quotes	Quotation	2007-02-11 09:51:34	Homophobia	Ken Wilber	quotes/homophobia.html	cultural evolution, diversity	An integral approach acknowledges that all views have a degree of truth, but some views are more true than others, more evolved, more developed, more adequate. And so let's get that part out of the way right now: homophobia in any form, as far as I can tell, stems from a lower level of human development -- but it is a level, it exists, and one has to make room in one's awareness for those lower levels as well, just as one has to include third grade in any school curriculum. Just don't, you know, put those people in charge of anything important.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-11-02 07:28:14	Sixties Surpluses of Money and Time	Joe Boyd	quotes/sixties-surpluses-of-money-and-time.html	cultural evolution	The atmosphere in which music flourished then had a lot to do with economics. It was a time of unprecedented prosperity. People are supposedly wealthier now, yet most feel they haven't enough money and time is at an even greater premium.... In the sixties, we had surpluses of both money and time. Friends of mine lived comfortably in Greenwich Village, Harvard Square, Bayswater, Santa Monica and on the Left Bank and were, by current standards, broke. Yet they survived easily on occasional coffee-house gigs or part-time work. Today, urbanites must feverishly maximize their economic potential just to maintain a small flat in Hoboken, Somerville, Hackney, Korea Town or Belleville. The economy of the sixties cut us a lot of slack, leaving time to travel, take drugs, write songs and rethink the universe.
Quotes	Quotation	2011-12-29 08:50:31	Shareholder Value	Jack Welch	quotes/shareholder-value.html	value creation	On the face of it, shareholder value is the dumbest idea in the world. Shareholder value is a result, not a strategy... your main constituencies are your employees, your customers and your products. Managers and investors should not set share price increases as their overarching goal. ... Short-term profits should be allied with an increase in the long-term value of a company. 
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Intellectual Debate	John Stuart Mill	quotes/intellectual-debate.html	critical thinking	In all intellectual debates, both sides tend to be correct in what they affirm, and wrong in what they deny.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:32	Nirvana Antipattern	William J. Brown, Hays W. McCormick III and Scott W. Thomas	quotes/nirvana-antipattern.html	critical thinking	The typical, and primary, root cause of [the Nirvana] AntiPattern is the misguided notion that conflict is bad, and therefore should be avoided at all costs. In reality, conflict in the form of tension ... is a necessary part of any difficult task that involves intelligent people who care about their work.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-07-20 16:19:08	Civilization was a thin and precarious crust	John Maynard Keynes	quotes/civilization-was-a-thin-and-precarious-crust.html	society	We were not aware that civilization was a thin and precarious crust erected by the personality and the will of a very few, and only maintained by rules and conventions skilfully put across and guilefully preserved.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-10-26 20:04:13	The Most Dangerous of Devotions	E. O. Wilson	quotes/the-most-dangerous-of-devotions.html	humanism, religion	The most dangerous of devotions, in my opinion, is the one endemic to Christianity: <em>I was not born to be of this world.</em> With a second life waiting, suffering can be endured -- especially in other people. The natural environment can be used up. Enemies of the faith can be savaged and suicidal martyrdom praised. 
Quotes	Quotation	2017-01-13 11:51:50	The World Empire enforces World Peace	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/the-world-empire-enforces-world-peace.html	governance, systemic	Most countries no longer engage in full-scale war for the simple reason that they are no longer independent. Though citizens in Israel, Italy, Mexico or Thailand may harbour illusions of independence, the fact is that their governments cannot conduct independent economic or foreign policies, and they are certainly incapable of initiating and conducting full-scale war on their own. As explained in Chapter 11, we are witnessing the formation of a global empire. Like previous empires, this one, too, enforces peace within its borders. And since its borders cover the entire globe, the World Empire effectively enforces world peace.
Quotes	Quotation	2009-02-04 07:47:47	The Third Place	Ray Oldenburg	quotes/the-third-place.html	connection	Most needed are those 'third places' which lend a public balance to the increased privatization of home life. Third places are nothing more than informal public gathering places. The phrase 'third places' derives from considering our homes to be the 'first' places in our lives, and our work places the 'second.'
Quotes	Quotation	2018-07-07 10:03:19	The Half-Finished Heaven	Tomas Tranströmer	quotes/the-half-finished-heaven.html	connection, wonder	Despondency breaks off its course.  Anguish breaks off its course.  The vulture breaks off its flight. The eager light streams out,  even the ghosts take a draught. And our paintings see daylight,  our red beasts of the ice-age studios. Everything begins to look around.  We walk in the sun in hundreds. Each man is a half-open door  leading to a room for everyone. The endless ground under us. The water is shining among the trees. The lake is a window into the earth.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-08 07:19:45	A beast or a god	Aristotle	quotes/a-beast-or-a-god.html	society	But he who is unable to live in society, or who has no need because he is sufficient for himself, must be either a beast or a god: he is no part of a state. A social instinct is implanted in all men by nature.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-12-14 12:48:16	Amusing ourselves to death	Neil Postman	quotes/amusing-ourselves-to-death.html	written word	Our politics, religion, news, athletics, education and commerce have been transformed into congenial adjuncts of show business, largely without protest or even much popular notice. The result is that we are a people on the verge of amusing ourselves to death. 
Quotes	Quotation	2017-02-20 08:28:52	Facts are Facts	Peter Kann	quotes/facts-are-facts.html	critical thinking	Facts are facts; they are ascertainable through honest, open-minded and diligent reporting; truth is attainable by laying fact upon fact, much like the construction of a cathedral; and truth is not merely in the eye of the beholder.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-04-24 08:44:31	The best way to predict the future is to invent it	Alan Kay	quotes/the-best-way-to-predict-the-future-is-to-invent-it.html	individuals	Don't worry about what anybody else is going to do.... The best way to predict the future is to invent it. Really smart people with reasonable funding can do just about anything that doesn't violate too many of Newton’s Laws.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-08-03 11:41:40	Liberal democracy's strongest glue is economic growth	Edward Luce	quotes/liberal-democracys-strongest-glue-is-economic-growth.html	equality	We are taught to think our democracies are held together by values. Our faith in history fuels that myth. But liberal democracy's strongest glue is economic growth. When groups fight over the fruits of growth, the rules of the political game are relatively easy to uphold. When those fruits disappear, or are monopolised by a fortunate few, things turn nasty. History should have taught us that. The losers seek scapegoats. The politics of interest group management turn into a zero-sum battle over declining resources. The past also tells us to beware of the West at times of stark and growing inequality. It rarely ends well.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Enemies of Art and Artist	Henry Miller	quotes/enemies-of-art-and-artist.html	art	Men are not suffering from the lack of good literature, good art, good theatre, good music, but from that which has made it impossible for these to become manifest. In short, they are suffering from the silent, shameful conspiracy (the more shameful since it is unacknowledged) which has bound them together as enemies of art and artist. They are suffering from the fact that art is not the primary moving force in their lives. They are suffering from the act, repeated daily, of keeping up the pretense that they can go their way, lead their lives, without art.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-05-26 20:36:29	Progress Depends on the Unreasonable Man	George Bernard Shaw	quotes/progress-depends-on-the-unreasonable-man.html	individuals, progress	The reasonable man adapts himself to the world: the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man.
Quotes	Quotation	2012-09-03 11:43:18	Stakeholder Capitalism	Frank W. Abrams	quotes/stakeholder-capitalism.html	governance	The job of management is to maintain an equitable and working balance among the claims of the various directly affected interest groups... stockholders, employees, customers and the public at large.
Quotes	Quotation	2007-04-10 14:52:58	The Rainbow Bridge	E. M. Forster	quotes/the-rainbow-bridge.html	connection, humanism, integral	Mature as he was, she might yet be able to help him to the building of the rainbow bridge that should connect the prose in us with the passion. Without it we are meaningless fragments, half monks, half beasts, unconnected arches that have never joined into a man. With it love is born, and alights on the highest curve, glowing against the gray, sober against the fire.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Successful Planning	Dashiell Hammett	quotes/successful-planning.html	critical thinking	The outcome of successful planning always looks like luck to saps.
Quotes	Quotation	2007-10-24 18:20:11	Merely Thoroughly Outrageous	Margery Allingham	quotes/merely-thoroughly-outrageous.html	cultural evolution	He made the discovery with a certain amount of relief, since it took him at least out of the region of pure fantasy and into the merely thoroughly outrageous, with which as a modern he was by now more or less familiar. 
Quotes	Quotation	2019-01-07 09:07:37	All of us are trim tabs	Jeff Bridges	quotes/all-of-us-are-trim-tabs.html	individuals	One guy, he had nothing to do with the movies, but I've taken a lot of direction from him. That's Bucky Fuller. Bucky, he's most famous for the geodesic dome, but he made a great observation about these oceangoing tankers. And he noticed that the engineers were particularly challenged by how to turn this thing, you know? They got this big rudder, it took too much energy to turn the rudder to turn the ship. So they came up with a brilliant idea. Let's put a little rudder on the big rudder. The little rudder will turn the big rudder, the big rudder will turn the ship. The little rudder is called a trim tab. Bucky made the analogy that a trim tab is an example of how the individual is connected to society and how we affect society. And I like to think of myself as a trim tab. All of us are trim tabs. We might seem like we're not up to the task, but we are, man. We're alive! We can make a difference! We can turn this ship in the way we wanna go, man! Towards love, creating a healthy planet for all of us.
Quotes	Quotation	2009-12-21 21:51:29	Price of Success	Frank Lloyd Wright	quotes/price-of-success.html	individuals	I know the price of success: dedication, hard work and an unremitting devotion to the things you want to see happen.
Quotes	Quotation	2009-01-23 06:17:23	The Trick in Keeping Bands Together	Bruce Springsteen	quotes/the-trick-in-keeping-bands-together.html	equality	The trick in keeping bands together is always the same: 'Hey, asshole, the guy standing next to you is more important than you think he is.'
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Small and Obscure Deeds	Albert Schweitzer	quotes/small-and-obscure-deeds.html	individuals, progress	Of all the will toward the ideal in mankind only a small part can manifest itself in public action. All the rest of this force must be content with small and obscure deeds. The sum of these, however, is a thousand times stronger than the acts of those who receive wide public recognition. The latter, compared to the former, are like the foam on the waves of a deep ocean.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:31	Simplicity and Complexity	Albert Einstein	quotes/simplicity-and-complexity.html	science	Everything should be made as simple as possible, but no simpler.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-07 12:16:11	Egocentric Existence	Clare W. Graves	quotes/egocentric-existence.html	cultural evolution	Both the authoritarian and the submissive develop standards which they feel will insure them against threat, but these are very raw standards. The submissive person chooses to get away with what he can within the life style which is possible for him. The authoritarian chooses to do as he pleases. He spawns, as his raison d'être, the rights of assertive individualism. These rights become, in time, the absolute rights of kings, the unassailable prerogatives of management, the inalienable rights of those who have achieved positions of power, and even the rights of the lowly hustler to all he can hustle. This is a world of the aggressive expression of man's lusts openly and unabashedly by the 'haves,' and more covertly and deviously by the 'have nots.'
Quotes	Quotation	2018-08-12 15:08:03	If triangles had a god	Montesquieu	quotes/if-triangles-had-a-god.html	religion	If triangles had a god, they would give him three sides.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-10-19 09:17:57	All the World's Cultures Now Available to Us	Ken Wilber	quotes/all-the-worlds-cultures-now-available-to-us.html	cultural evolution	During the last 30 years, we have witnessed a historical first: all of the world's cultures are now available to us. ...for the first time, the sum total of human knowledge is available to us--the knowledge, experience, wisdom and reflection of all major human civilizations--premodern, modern and postmodern--are open to study by anyone.
Quotes	Quotation	2007-11-13 17:53:40	Progress Depends on Retentiveness	George Santayana	quotes/progress-depends-on-retentiveness.html	progress	Progress, far from consisting in change, depends on retentiveness. When change is absolute there remains no being to improve and no direction is set for possible improvement: and when experience is not retained, as among savages, infancy is perpetual. Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.
Quotes	Quotation	2009-05-29 06:21:19	Faster Horses	Henry Ford	quotes/faster-horses.html	progress	If I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said faster horses.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-02-21 10:27:11	Independence, freedom and opportunity for every member of society	Anu Partanen	quotes/independence-freedom-and-opportunity-for-every-member-of-society.html	liberty	At the same time, the Nordic theory of love has become an overarching philosophy about how to structure a society. As such, it has inspired the broad variety of policy choices in the Nordic nations that together ensure a single, predominant goal: independence, freedom and opportunity for every member of society. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-10-02 13:07:24	Seeking ways to disagree with myself	Yanis Varoufakis	quotes/seeking-ways-to-disagree-with-myself.html	critical thinking	It has allowed me to return to a long-lost self who once wrote in peace and quiet ... doing what I have always loved: finding ways to disagree with myself in order to discover what my true thoughts are.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-12-05 09:12:14	Books are key to understanding the world	Carl Sagan	quotes/books-are-key-to-understanding-the-world.html	written word	For 99 percent of the tenure of humans on earth, nobody could read or write. The great invention had not yet been made. Except for firsthand experience, almost everything we knew was passed on by word of mouth. As in the children's game "Telephone," over tens and hundreds of generations, information would slowly be distorted and lost. Books changed all that. Books, purchasable at low cost, permit us to interrogate the past with high accuracy; to tap the wisdom of our species; to understand the point of view of others, and not just those in power; to contemplate -- with the best teachers -- the insights, painfully extracted from Nature, of the greatest minds that ever were, drawn from the entire planet and from all of our history. They allow people long dead to talk inside our heads. Books can accompany us everywhere. Books are patient where we are slow to understand, allow us to go over the hard parts as many times as we wish, and are never critical of our lapses. Books are key to understanding the world and participating in a democratic society.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-02-16 13:25:08	Cultural, as opposed to biological, evolution	Edwin G. Pulleyblank	quotes/cultural-as-opposed-to-biological-evolution.html	cultural evolution	Our capacity, through language, to manipulate the mental world and so deal imaginatively with the world of experience has been a major factor, perhaps the major factor, in giving humans the overwhelming advantage over other species in terms of cultural, as opposed to biological, evolution. 
Quotes	Quotation	2017-04-21 08:41:53	Excitement from Art	Anthony Burgess	quotes/excitement-from-art.html	art	The excitement we derive from a work of art is mostly the excitement of seeing connections that did not exist before, of seeing quite different aspects of life unified through a pattern.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-08-03 10:53:08	The stagnation of American middle-class living standards	Ben Friedman	quotes/the-stagnation-of-american-middle-class-living-standards.html	society	I believe that the rising intolerance and incivility and the eroding generosity and openness that have marked important aspects of American society in the recent past have been, in significant part, a consequence of the stagnation of American middle-class living standards.
Quotes	Quotation	2016-11-25 19:35:31	A Progressive Annual Tax on Capital	Thomas Piketty	quotes/a-progressive-annual-tax-on-capital.html	equality, value creation	The right solution is a progressive annual tax on capital. This will make it possible to avoid an endless inegalitarian spiral while preserving competition and incentives for new instances of primitive accumulation.... This would contain the unlimited growth of global inequality of wealth, which is currently increasing at a rate that cannot be sustained in the long run and that ought to worry even the most fervent champions of the self-regulated market. Historical experience shows, moreover, that such immense inequalities of wealth have little to do with the entrepreneurial spirit and are of no use in promoting growth. Nor are they of any 'common utility,' to borrow the nice expression from the 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen with which I began this book.
Quotes	Quotation	2015-03-18 18:19:43	I must study politics and war	John Adams	quotes/i-must-study-politics-and-war.html	cultural evolution, education, parenthood	I must study politics and war, that our sons may have liberty to study mathematics and philosophy. Our sons ought to study mathematics and philosophy, geography, natural history and naval architecture, navigation, commerce and agriculture in order to give their children a right to study painting, poetry, music, architecture, statuary, tapestry and porcelain.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-08-15 09:16:17	Only a Human Being	Albert Einstein	quotes/only-a-human-being.html	cultural evolution, humanism	I am by heritage a Jew, by citizenship a Swiss, and by makeup a human being, and <em>only</em> a human being, without any special attachment to any state or national entity whatsoever.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-15 16:24:42	To differentiate truth from falsehood	Robert B. Reich	quotes/to-differentiate-truth-from-falsehood.html	critical thinking, education	It is the civic responsibility of all of us to check the facts we read or hear, to find and depend upon reliable sources, to share the truth with others, and hold accountable those who lie to us or suppress the truth. We must also ensure that every American has sufficient education to differentiate truth from falsehood, and to think critically about what they read and see. 
Quotes	Quotation	2014-07-21 18:10:29	Politics and the Debasement of Language	George Orwell	quotes/politics-and-the-debasement-of-language.html	critical thinking, written word	A scrupulous writer, in every sentence that he writes, will ask himself at least four questions, thus: What am I trying to say? What words will express it? What image or idiom will make it clearer? Is this image fresh enough to have an effect? And he will probably ask himself two more: Could I put it more shortly? Have I said anything that is avoidably ugly? But you are not obliged to go to all this trouble. You can shirk it by simply throwing your mind open and letting the ready-made phrases come crowding in. They will construct your sentences for you -- even think your thoughts for you, to a certain extent -- and at need they will perform the important service of partially concealing your meaning even from yourself. It is at this point that the special connection between politics and the debasement of language becomes clear.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-08-05 16:02:04	An Invincible Summer	Albert Camus	quotes/an-invincible-summer.html	humanism	In the depths of winter, I finally learned that within me there lay an invincible summer.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-10-20 13:51:42	The Philosophy of Jazz	Wynton Marsalis	quotes/the-philosophy-of-jazz.html	equality, individuals, liberty	Jazz is the most flexible art form ever because it believes in the good taste of individuals. It believes in our ability to make reasonable choices. It takes a chance on our decision-making skills instead of legislating our freedom away with written restrictions and restrictive hierarchies. In jazz, the size of your heart and your ability to play determine your position in the band. The philosophy of jazz is rooted in the elevation and enrichment of people, plain ol' folks.
Quotes	Quotation	2016-11-21 09:31:09	Myths are stronger than anyone could have imagined	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/myths-are-stronger-than-anyone-could-have-imagined.html	cultural evolution, stories	Myths, it transpired, are stronger than anyone could have imagined. When the Agricultural Revolution opened opportunities for the creation of crowded cities and mighty empires, people invented stories about great gods, motherlands and joint stock companies to provide the needed social links. While human evolution was crawling at its usual snail's pace, the human imagination was building astounding networks of mass cooperation, unlike any other ever seen on earth.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-02-17 12:36:00	Capitalists who worship only at the feet of capitalism	Herb Bowie	quotes/capitalists-who-worship-only-at-the-feet-of-capitalism.html	value creation	Democratic capitalism is a wonderful device precisely because it maximizes the ability of individuals within society to singly and collectively pursue the ends that <em>they</em> find to be important and meaningful; the accomplishments of a capitalistic society are noble and grand to the extent that the ends pursued by its individuals aspire to these lofty goals, and bereft to the extent that the intentions of its citizens are mean and unworthy; nothing makes capitalism appear more hollow than capitalists who worship only at the feet of capitalism: they are like workmen who have fallen in love with their tools, while blind to the glories of the cathedrals these tools have built and can yet build. 
Quotes	Quotation	2007-02-11 09:42:57	The Beautiful, the Good and the True	Ken Wilber	quotes/the-beautiful-the-good-and-the-true.html	integral	If you are talking to me about your new car, you are the first person, I am the second person, and the car is the third person. These pronouns actually represent three perspectives that human beings can take when they talk about the world or attempt to know the world.... The fascinating part is that these three perspectives might actually give rise to art, morals, and science. Or the Beautiful, the Good, and the True: the Beauty that is in the eye (or the I) of the beholder; the Good or moral actions that can exist between you and me as a we; and the objective Truth about third-person objects (or its) that you and I might discover: hence, art (I), morals (we), and science (it).
Quotes	Quotation	2006-12-02 12:08:20	Ancient ethnic sores belching fire	Don Beck and Chris Cowan	quotes/ancient-ethnic-sores-belching-fire.html	cultural evolution, diversity, systemic	The complications of this diversity can be overwhelming. Ancient ethnic sores are belching fire while transnational companies linked by satellites conduct their business oblivious to the feudal past below.
Quotes	Quotation	2011-04-22 06:04:28	Mysticism has kept men sane	G. K. Chesterton	quotes/mysticism-has-kept-men-sane.html	wonder	The truth is that Tolstoy, with his immense genius, with his colossal faith, with his vast fearlessness and vast knowledge of life, is deficient in one faculty and one faculty alone. He is not a mystic; and therefore he has a tendency to go mad. Men talk of the extravagances and frenzies that have been produced by mysticism; they are a mere drop in the bucket. In the main, and from the beginning of time, mysticism has kept men sane. The thing that has driven them mad was logic. ...The only thing that has kept the race of men from the mad extremes of the convent and the pirate-galley, the night-club and the lethal chamber, has been mysticism-- the belief that logic is misleading, and that things are not what they seem.
Quotes	Quotation	2013-03-21 18:27:09	This dear fucked-up planet	Henry Miller	quotes/this-dear-fucked-up-planet.html	connection, love, progress	What are we here for if not to enjoy life eternal, solve what problems we can, give light, peace and joy to our fellow-man, and leave this dear fucked-up planet a little healthier than when we were born?
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-15 16:24:42	The institution of the family	Daniel Patrick Moynihan	quotes/the-institution-of-the-family.html	parenthood	The institution of the family is decisive in determining not only if a person has the capacity to love another individual but in the larger social sense whether he is capable of loving his fellow men collectively. The whole of society rests on this foundation for stability, understanding and social peace.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-01-25 08:18:43	Work, Soul and Life	Albert Camus	quotes/work-soul-and-life.html	value creation	Without work, all life goes rotten. But when work is soulless, life stifles and dies.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-05-22 15:02:48	Living happily ever after	Bob Mandel	quotes/living-happily-ever-after.html	mission	Living happily ever after is not the end of a fairy tale. It is the common purpose that all life seeks. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-15 16:24:42	Set off from the rest by a line drawn	Walt Whitman	quotes/set-off-from-the-rest-by-a-line-drawn.html	equality	Of all dangers to a nation, as things exist in our day, there can be no greater one than having certain portions of the people set off from the rest by a line drawn -- they not privileged as others, but degraded, humiliated, made of no account.
Quotes	Quotation	2007-10-08 19:40:58	Apes and Humans	Carl Sagan and Ann Druyan	quotes/apes-and-humans.html	evolution, humanism, science	Philosophers and scientists confidently offer up traits said to be uniquely human, and the apes casually knock them down -- toppling the pretension that humans constitute some sort of biological aristocracy among the beings of Earth. Instead, we are more like the nouveau riche, incompletely accommodated to our recent exalted state, insecure about who we are, and trying to put as much distance as possible between us and our humble origins.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:32	The Change Dilemma	Sydney Harris	quotes/the-change-dilemma.html	progress	Our dilemma is that we hate change and love it at the same time; what we really want is for things to remain the same but get better.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-15 16:24:42	Public morality	Robert B. Reich	quotes/public-morality.html	connection, democracy, diversity, equality, love, society	Moral guidance about what is right or decent can be found both in religious teachings and in our contemporary understanding of what we owe one another as members of the same society. As I have suggested, they overlap. A public morality that protects our democratic institutions, cherishes the truth, accepts our differences, ensures equal rights and equal opportunity, and invites passionate enagement in our civic life gives our own lives deeper meaning. It enlarges our capacities for attachment and love. It informs our sense of honor and shame. It equips us to be virtuous citizens. 
Quotes	Quotation	2016-12-04 10:38:38	Why study history?	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/why-study-history.html	cultural evolution	So why study history? Unlike physics or economics, history is not a means for making accurate predictions. We study history not to know the future but to widen our horizons, to understand that our present situation is neither natural nor inevitable, and that we consequently have many more possibilities before us than we imagine.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-02-26 13:10:02	Thralls to group instincts	Walter Mosley	quotes/thralls-to-group-instincts.html	cultural evolution	Maybe bees and ants don't mind being thralls to group instincts but people, I feel, do. And so the question that human beings must ask is, "How do I live my own life and survive, even prosper, while sharing the load of the greater culture?"
Quotes	Quotation	2018-07-07 09:13:08	People are finally finding out that the guy next door isn't a bad egg	Robert Riskin	quotes/people-are-finally-finding-out-that-the-guy-next-door-isnt-a-bad-egg.html	connection, society	You mean to tell me you'd try to kill the John Doe movement if you can't use it to get what you want? Well, that certainly is a new low. You sit there with your big cigars and think of deliberately killing an idea that has made millions of people a little bit happier. Why look, I'm just a mug and I know it -- but I'm beginning to understand a lot of things. Why, your types are as old as history! If you can't lay your dirty fingers on a decent idea and twist it and squeeze it and stuff it into your own pocket, you slap it down! Like dogs, if you can't eat something -- you bury it! Why, this is the one worthwhile idea that's come along! People are finally finding out that the guy next door isn't a bad egg. That's simple, isnt it? And yet a thing like that has got a chance to spread till it touches every last doggone human being in the world -- and you talk about killing it! Well, when this fire dies down what's going to be left? More misery! More hunger and more hate! And what's to prevent that from starting all over again? Nobody knows the answer to that one. The John Doe idea may be the answer though, it may be the one thing capable of saving this cockeyed world, yet you sit back there on your fat hulks and tell me you'll kill it if you can't use it! Well, you go ahead and try -- you couldn't do it in a million years with all your radio stations, and all your power. -- Down-and-out pitcher Long John Willoughby to industrialist D.B. Norton
Quotes	Quotation	2007-02-11 09:48:55	An Integral God	Ken Wilber	quotes/an-integral-god.html	integral, religion	An archaic God sees divinity in any strong instinctual force. A magic God locates divine power in the human ego and its magical capacity to change the animistic world with rituals and spells. A mythic God is located not on this earth but in a heavenly paradise not of this world, entrance to which is gained by living according to the covenants and rules given by this God to his peoples. A mental God is a rational God, a demythologized Ground of Being that underlies all forms of existence. And an integral God is one that embraces all of the above.
Quotes	Quotation	2015-08-30 14:24:57	Great minds discuss ideas	Eleanor Roosevelt	quotes/great-minds-discuss-ideas.html	critical thinking	Great minds discuss ideas, average ones discuss events, and small minds discuss people.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-02-26 13:01:51	This faith in consciousness	Walter Mosley	quotes/this-faith-in-consciousness.html	critical thinking	We are ambivalent, combative, stubborn, wildly changeable beings that have the natural schizophrenic facility to love and hate at the same time. We respond, with Pavlovian predictability, to invisible forces such as the economic infrastructure, ever-changing technology, and unconscious instincts, all the while believing that we are fully conscious beings making decisions based on logic arisen from observations informed by eternal truths. This faith in consciousness is, in the mildest language possible, misplaced.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-11-02 09:33:08	Little I recognized as music	Joe Boyd	quotes/little-i-recognized-as-music.html	art	Thirty years after Brighton, I walked sadly away from the New Orleans Jazz &amp; Heritage Fair. It was everything my twenty-one-year-old self might have dreamed of: 75,000 people packed into the Fairgrounds, with NPR-subscriber bags holding expertly marked programmes. America's black musical heritage was on parade across two long weekends and eight stages. But the audience was almost entirely white. The performers had learned their lessons, dropping any modernizations or slick showbiz gestures and recreating the old-time styles the sophisticated audiences craved. On one level, it demonstrated respect for a deep culture and a rejection of shallow novelty. But removed from the soil in which it grew the music felt lifeless, like actors portraying characters who happened to be their younger selves. In two days wandering from stage to stage, I heard little I recognized as music.
Quotes	Quotation	2013-12-12 09:11:11	Myth-Makers	Kurt Vonnegut	quotes/myth-makers.html	stories, written word	It's only recently that I've come to understand that writers are not marginal to our society, that they, in fact, do all our thinking for us, that we are writing myths and our myths are believed, and that old myths are believed until someone writes a new one. ... I think writers should be more responsible than they are, as we've imagined for a long time that it really doesn't matter what we say. . . . I think it's a beginning for authors to acknowledge that they are myth-makers and that if they are widely read, will have an influence that will last for many years -- I don't think that there's a strong awareness of that now, and we have such a young culture that there is an opportunity to contribute wonderful new myths to it, which will be accepted.
Quotes	Quotation	2008-10-07 18:07:48	The Power of Art	Wynton Marsalis	quotes/the-power-of-art.html	art, progress	When I started learning about jazz, I wasn't into any kind of art. I had no idea it could have a practical purpose. Now, more than thirty years later, I testify to the power of art, and more specifically jazz, to improve your life--and keep on improving it.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-07-09 11:55:25	To live wisely and agreeably and well	John Maynard Keynes	quotes/to-live-wisely-and-agreeably-and-well.html	equality	Thus for the first time since his creation man will be faced with his real, his permanent problem -- how to use his freedom from pressing economic cares, how to occupy the leisure, which science and compound interest will have won for him, to live wisely and agreeably and well.
Quotes	Quotation	2017-06-07 08:15:41	Couldn’t everyone’s life become a work of art?	Michel Foucault	quotes/couldnt-everyones-life-become-a-work-of-art.html	art	What strikes me is the fact that in our society, art has become something which is related only to objects and not to individuals, or to life. That art is something which is specialized or which is done by experts who are artists. But couldn't everyone's life become a work of art? Why should the lamp or the house be an art object, but not our life?
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-13 15:43:26	Man must believe in an open future	Colin Wilson	quotes/man-must-believe-in-an-open-future.html	liberty, mission	Man's freedom is a reality -- a reality that makes a difference to his physical, as well as his mental health. When Frankl's prisoners ceased to believe in the possibility of freedom, they grew sick and died. On the other hand, when they saw that Dachau had no chimney, standing out all night in the rain seemed no great hardship; they laughed and joked. The conclusion needs to be stated in letters ten feet high. In order to realise his possibilities, man must believe in an open future; he must have a vision of something worth doing. And this will not be possible until all the determinism and pessimism that we have inherited from the 19th century -- and which has infected every department of our culture, from poetry to atomic physics -- has been dismissed as fallacious and illogical. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-06-21 11:01:46	Walter Reuther and the Ford Robots	Walter Reuther	quotes/walter-reuther-and-the-ford-robots.html	progress	Walter Reuther, the pioneer UAW organizer, told the story of a conversation with a Ford executive who was showing Reuther his new factory robots. "How are you going to collect union dues from all these machines?" he asked. Reuther said he replied, "You know, that is not what's bothering me. I'm troubled by the problem of how to sell automobiles to them."
Quotes	Quotation	2018-04-24 08:33:37	Governance is essential	Tim O'Reilly	quotes/governance-is-essential.html	governance	The simple maps of idealized markets leave out many real-world details that must be dealt with in order for the market to actually function properly. Governance is essential. 
Quotes	Quotation	2016-11-11 10:07:21	History is something very few people have been doing	Yuval Noah Harari	quotes/history-is-something-very-few-people-have-been-doing.html	cultural evolution	These forfeited food surpluses fuelled politics, wars, art and philosophy. They built palaces, forts, monuments and temples. Until the late modern era, more than 90 per cent of humans were peasants who rose each morning to till the land by the sweat of their brows. The extra they produced fed the tiny minority of elites -- kings, government officials, soldiers, priests, artists and thinkers -- who fill the history books. History is something that very few people have been doing while everyone else was ploughing fields and carrying water buckets.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-08-03 10:42:44	The yen to work drops in flat economies	Edward Luce	quotes/the-yen-to-work-drops-in-flat-economies.html	society, value creation	Writing in the 1950s, Daniel Bell, the great American sociologist, said 'economic growth has become the secular religion of advancing industrial societies'. He was right. It follows that in its absence, many people lapse into the equivalent of atheism. That sense of listlessness shows up in many ways. In the labour market, it means falling rates of workforce participation. Much as the desire to worship falls in agnostic societies, the yen to work drops in flat economies. In the last decade, America's share of people in full-time jobs has dropped to European levels, which used to be written off as a sclerotic consequence of the continent's over-regulated labour markets. Now the US rate is bang on the European average. In some respects it is worse. There is now a higher share of French males in full-time jobs than Americans -- a statistic that reflects poorly on America, rather than well on France. 
Quotes	Quotation	2014-07-16 20:05:36	The Other Side of Complexity	Oliver Wendell Holmes	quotes/the-other-side-of-complexity.html	critical thinking	I would not give a fig for the simplicity this side of complexity, but I would give my life for the simplicity on the other side of complexity.
Quotes	Quotation	2015-03-21 11:15:56	People ask me to predict the future	Ray Bradbury	quotes/people-ask-me-to-predict-the-future.html	individuals, progress	People ask me to predict the future, when all I want to do is prevent it. Better yet, build it. Predicting the future is much too easy, anyway. You look at the people around you, the street you stand on, the visible air you breathe, and predict more of the same. To hell with more. I want better.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-01-16 07:50:36	You have your position because of the events of history	Martin Luther King Jr.	quotes/you-have-your-position-because-of-the-events-of-history.html	connection, cultural evolution	No matter where you stand, no matter how much popularity you have, no matter how much education you have, no matter how much money you have, you have it because somebody in this universe helped you to get it. And when you see that, you can't be arrogant, you can't be supercilious. You discover that you have your position because of the events of history and because of individuals in the background making it possible for you to stand there.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-10-26 19:52:23	The Toxic Mix of Religion and Tribalism	E. O. Wilson	quotes/the-toxic-mix-of-religion-and-tribalism.html	cultural evolution, religion, science	The toxic mix of religion and tribalism has become so dangerous as to justify taking seriously the alternative view, that humanism based on science is the effective antidote, the light and the way at last placed before us. 
Quotes	Quotation	2010-04-06 19:31:43	The Fragile Constructs of History	Eamonn Kelly	quotes/the-fragile-constructs-of-history.html	cultural evolution	Perhaps the greatest cognitive barrier we face in making sense of the world is that we have come to view certain realities as part of a "natural order" that will remain unchallenged. In fact, many "fundamental truths" that we take for granted are simply the fragile constructs of history and could shift radically in the decade ahead.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:32	Those Sharp, Scratchy, Harsh, Almost Unpleasant Guys	Thomas J. Watson, Jr	quotes/those-sharp-scratchy-harsh-almost-unpleasant-guys.html	critical thinking	I never hesitated to promote someone I didn't like. The comfortable assistant, the nice guy you like to go on fishing trips with, is a great pitfall. Instead I looked for those sharp, scratchy, harsh, almost unpleasant guys who see and tell you about things as they really are. If you can get enough of them around you and have patience enough to hear them out, there is no limit to where you can go.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-08-03 11:36:11	Responsible Nationalism	Edward Luce	quotes/responsible-nationalism.html	governance	Lawrence Summers complained of 'the development of stateless elites whose allegiance is to global economic success and their own prosperity rather than the interests of the nation where they are headquartered'. By 2016, he was warning that the public's tolerance for expert solutions 'appears to have been exhausted'. He advised a new 'responsible nationalism', which would 'begin from the idea that the basic responsibility of government is to maximize the welfare of its citizens, not to pursue some abstract concept of the global good'. The global elites, in other words, need to catch up with how most people view the world -- not the other way round.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-08-03 10:58:37	Capitalism works best in societies where there are high levels of trust	Edward Luce	quotes/capitalism-works-best-in-societies-where-there-are-high-levels-of-trust.html	equality, society	Adam Smith, the great theorist of free trade economics, is revered for his *The Wealth of Nations*. His companion work, *The Theory of Moral Sentiments*, is mostly forgotten. Yet it is the more important of the two. In it, Smith sets out why capitalism works best in societies where there are high levels of trust between its participants. When social trust falls, the cost of doing business rises. Even in the late eighteenth century, at the dawn of modern growth, Smith grasped the psychological importance of possessing faith in a better future. 
Quotes	Quotation	2018-10-29 07:20:00	Let us accept our own responsibility for the future	John F. Kennedy	quotes/let-us-accept-our-own-responsibility-for-the-future.html	mission	Let us not despair but act. Let us not seek the Republican answer or the Democratic answer, but the right answer. Let us not seek to fix the blame for the past -- let us accept our own responsibility for the future. 
Quotes	Quotation	2017-02-26 12:38:51	A world that is tolerable	Walter Mosley	quotes/a-world-that-is-tolerable.html	mission	We have to stop and pull back, look at ourselves and each other and wonder if there is a way that each and every one of us (or at least the vast majority of us) can agree on the elements that make a world that is tolerable: a world with enough food and warmth and pleasant distractions; a world where love and belief are okay, even primary.
Quotes	Quotation	2011-10-30 11:35:29	Unbelievable Heroes	John Rogers	quotes/unbelievable-heroes.html	imperfection, stories	There are two novels that can change a bookish fourteen-year old's life: The <cite>Lord of the Rings</cite> and <cite>Atlas Shrugged</cite>. One is a childish fantasy that often engenders a lifelong obsession with its unbelievable heroes, leading to an emotionally stunted, socially crippled adulthood, unable to deal with the real world. The other, of course, involves orcs.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-11-15 16:24:42	Everyone is entitled to his own opinion, but not his own facts	Daniel Patrick Moynihan	quotes/everyone-is-entitled-to-his-own-opinion-but-not-his-own-facts.html	critical thinking	Everyone is entitled to his own opinion, but not his own facts
Quotes	Quotation	2011-04-22 06:03:10	This dazed and dramatic ignorance	G. K. Chesterton	quotes/this-dazed-and-dramatic-ignorance.html	wonder	One of the deepest and strangest of all human moods is the mood which will suddenly strike us perhaps in a garden at night, or deep in sloping meadows, the feeling that every flower and leaf has just uttered something stupendously direct and important, and that we have by a prodigy of imbecility not heard or understood it. There is a certain poetic value, and that a genuine one, in this sense of having missed the full meaning of things. There is beauty, not only in wisdom, but in this dazed and dramatic ignorance.
Quotes	Quotation	2006-11-30 14:29:32	Vital and Significant Forms of Art	Raymond Chandler	quotes/vital-and-significant-forms-of-art.html	art, individuals	Nor is it any part of my thesis to maintain that it [the detective story] is a vital and significant form of art. There are no vital and significant forms of art; there is only art, and precious little of that. The growth of populations has in no way increased the amount; it has merely increased the adeptness with which substitutes can be produced and packaged.
Quotes	Quotation	2018-05-27 07:30:12	Investing in other people's children	Robert Putnam	quotes/investing-in-other-peoples-children.html	education, society	All of the great advances in our society have come when we have made investments in other people's children.
Quotes	Quotation	2010-07-12 15:10:39	Freedom of Judgment	Baruch Spinoza	quotes/freedom-of-judgment.html	liberty, society	Since we have the rare good fortune to live in a commonwealth where the freedom of judgment is fully granted to the individual citizen and he may worship God as he pleases, and where nothing is esteemed dearer and more precious than freedom, I think I am undertaking no ungrateful or unprofitable task in demonstrating that not only can this freedom be granted without endangering piety and the peace of the commonwealth, but also the peace of the commonwealth and piety depend on this freedom.
Quotes	Quotation	2014-11-03 04:55:22	The Inner Life of the Artist	Edward Hopper	quotes/the-inner-life-of-the-artist.html	art, individuals	Great art is the outward expression of an inner life in the artist, and this inner life will result in his personal vision of the world.
Quotes	Quotation	2016-04-26 09:02:12	Only Two Sources of Real Wealth	Dorothy L. Sayers	quotes/only-two-sources-of-real-wealth.html	individuals, value creation	We have had to learn the bitter lesson that in all the world there are only two sources of real wealth: the fruit of the earth and the labor of men; and to estimate work not by the money it brings to the producer, but by the worth of the thing that is made.
